Advertisement By IAN AUSTENMARCH 30, 2018
 Christopher Wylie, the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower, brought Canada into a story that’s drawn intense scrutiny to Facebook this week. And it’s not just because he’s from Victoria, British Columbia. After focusing close attention on the social network with the disclosure that Cambridge used personal data from millions of the social media site’s users without permission to help Donald J. Trump’s election campaign, Mr. Wylie brought a company from his hometown, Aggregate IQ, into the fray this week during testimony before Britain’s Parliament. In his testimony, Mr. Wylie said that Aggregrate, a subsidiary of Cambridge Analytica’s parent, drew on Cambridge’s Facebook data to sway social media opinion in favor of the Leave side in the 2016 British referendum on the European Union vote, and he repeated claims that the Canadian company was used to avoid British campaign spending limits. (The company has denied the claims.) Attention inevitably turned to Mr. Wylie’s activities in Canada. When he was 19, Mr. Wylie worked briefly in the office of Michael Ignatieff, then the Liberal leader. Then early in 2016, when Mr. Trump’s victory was not being widely predicted, Mr. Wylie, through a company called Eunoia Technologies, was given a 100,000 Canadian dollar contract by the Liberal Caucus Research Bureau. Like all of the political parties’ research shops, the bureau is separate from the party’s other operations and is funded by Parliament. Melissa Cotton, the bureau’s managing director, said in a statement that Mr. Wylie did not have access to the party’s data and that he worked on projects that appeared to have involved monitoring social media, identifying issues and analyzing how Liberal members communicate with voters. Advertisement “Preliminary work was done by Eunoia Technologies but after seeing what was offered, Liberal Caucus Research Bureau decided not to move forward.” Ms. Cotton said, without explaining why it cut ties. Advertisement Mr. Wylie’s time in Ottawa, however, brought to light something that most people have overlooked. Unlike businesses and the federal government itself, federal political parties aren’t subject to Canada’s internet privacy and data protection laws. Some of those laws date to the 1980s and the federal privacy commissioner, among others, has been calling for a 21st century update. But while Canada lags behind Europe in this area, it’s still well ahead of the United States. The political party exemption came about in part because of a parliamentary tradition of not giving bureaucrats or outside bodies control over a party’s affairs. I called Michael Pal, an assistant law professor at the University of Ottawa who studies election laws and related issues like voter suppression, and asked if it’s time for a change. “Every other sector is covered by privacy laws but political parties,” he said. “They are all using data so I don’t think there is a good argument about why they should be under privacy rules.” As for concerns about encroaching on Parliament, Professor Pal isn’t buying that either. He noted that parties were already “heavily regulated” through Elections Canada and election fund-raising laws. So what’s a Facebook user to do now? My colleague Brian X. Chen, who writes about consumer technology, has offered some guidance on minimizing privacy risks on Facebook, although his overall take on the situation facing Facebook users is a little discouraging: “What, if anything, can they do to protect their data connected to the social network? Here’s the harsh truth: Not much, short of ceasing to browse the web entirely or deleting your Facebook account.” What about deleting old Facebook and Twitter posts? Brian tried it and found that his “delete-everything approach was probably not worth most people’s time. And even after all that time, my Facebook timeline was still decorated with posts that my friends had published about me — including photos from my 21st birthday (need I say more?) — because that content was not mine to delete.” Every week, receive a handpicked selection of news and opinion plus exclusive commentary from New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That, of course, leaves the option of quitting social media. And that’s what I’m interested in hearing about from you. Have the last couple of weeks turned your mind toward leaving Facebook or other social media sites? If you’re inclined, do you think it’s possible to leave? And if you leave, what will you lose and what will you gain? Please send your thoughts to nytcanada@nytimes.com. Advertisement Read: How Trump Consultants Exploited the Facebook Data of Millions Read: Cambridge Analytica Whistle-Blower Contends Data-Mining Swung Brexit Vote Read: How to Protect Yourself (and Your Friends) on Facebook Read: Want to Purge Your Social Media Timelines? Can You Spare a Few Hours? About a year ago, I wrote about how the house where the Dionne quintuplets were born faced an uncertain future. The birth, and survival, of the quints at the height of the Great Depression was both a global sensation and a tale of grave injustice. The girls were taken from their family and made wards of the province of Ontario, ostensibly to protect them from exploitation. But the government turned around and exhibited almost like zoo animals. Millions of visitors viewed them from a special gallery. Other injustices and misfortune followed the five through their lives. The decision by the City of North Bay to turn over the log house to a village without the obvious means to maintain or restore it looked like the latest one. But much has changed in the past year. After a public campaign, North Bay reversed its decision, and the house has been moved to downtown where it will become a museum. And this week, The Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada designated the birth of the quints an event of national historical significance. Carlo Tarini, a friend who acts as the family’s spokesman, told me this week that Annette and Cécile, the two surviving sisters, are doing well, although Cécile was hospitalized for a time in January because of pneumonia. “In the pre-internet decades of the 30s and 40s, the worldwide fascination they sparked as children brings shade to the Kardashian kids popularity,” Mr. Tarini wrote in an email. Advertisement Read: 2 Survivors of Canada’s First Quintuplet Clan Reluctantly Re-emerge —The Protestant churches involved in a system that took Indigenous children away from their families to boarding schools apologized for their role in during the 1990s. While the Truth and Reconciliation Commission has asked Pope Francis to follow suit, he rejected the idea. —Alexandre Bissonnette, who killed six men at a mosque in Quebec City last year, pleaded guilty to first degree murder this week. While the move brought relief to survivors and the families of victims, the lack of a trial means that questions about his transformation from university student to killer may go unanswered. —Rusty Staub, le Grand Orange to Montrealers, has died at the age of 73. During his time with the Montreal Expos, Mr. Staub endeared himself to Quebecers on the field. —Peter Munk, who created one of Canada’s biggest business fiascos at Clairtone and then rebounded to build the world’s largest gold mining company, has died at the age of 90 in Toronto. An earlier version of a web summary with this article misstated the name of the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower. He is Christopher Wylie, not Andrew Wylie. A native of Windsor, Ontario, Ian Austen was educated in Toronto, lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten. We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you haven’t done so, please subscribe to the email newsletter version. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 10:32 A.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - European soccer has lost a "huge player" in Zlatan Ibrahimovic but the striker will raise the level of the game in the U.S following his move to LA Galaxy, Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho said on Friday. Ibrahimovic last week ended a short but successful stint at United - where he won the League Cup and the Europa League - to become the latest high-profile player to move to the MLS, following the likes of David Beckham, Steven Gerrard, Thierry Henry and Frank Lampard. Mourinho used his news conference ahead of Saturday's Premier League game against Swansea City to pay tribute to the talismanic Swedish forward who he previously coached at Inter Milan. "For me it's always sad when the big players move towards the end," Mourinho told reporters. "I remember Luis Figo's last match with me and Inter, it was one of my saddest moments. The Zlatan goodbye was more in that direction, he's a huge player that European Football has lost. Advertisement "But this period with LA Galaxy will be very good for him, he will be good for American football, because of what he can do; his personality, his passion and his professionalism." Advertisement Ibrahimovic sustained a bad knee injury in United's Europa League quarter-final against Belgian side Anderlecht last April but returned to make seven appearances for the Old Trafford side this season.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "His recovery was an example of what a professional should be," Mourinho added. "For him (the move to U.S.) will just be a way to enjoy the last couple of years of football." United will be without back-up goalkeeper Sergio Romero for the weekend's game, after the Argentine international picked up a knock in his country's 6-1 friendly defeat by Spain. Ashley Young was also injured on international duty with England but could play against Carlos Carvalhal's 14th-placed side. United are second in the table on 65 points from 30 games as they bid to finish as runners-up to champions-elect Manchester City. (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru, editing by Ed Osmond) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:32 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Newcastle United can take a big step towards Premier League safety with a victory in the "massive" game against Huddersfield Town this weekend, manager Rafa Benitez said on Friday. Newcastle are 13th in the table and eight points adrift of the 40-point mark usually associated with top-flight survival and Benitez said the club could not afford to step off the gas with eight games remaining. "If we win, it will be a big step," Benitez told a news conference ahead of Saturday's game. "I say 40 points is the figure, but it may be less. We have to play, we have to win and after that, we have to keep fighting. "When you are getting close to the end, these games are even more important. For us, it's a massive game, but also for them." Advertisement Newcastle scored an important victory against second-placed Manchester United last month before they were held to a 2-2 draw at Bournemouth. Advertisement They responded to a 2-0 defeat at Liverpool earlier this month by beating Southampton 3-0 in their last game before the international break.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Benitez is hopeful Newcastle can build momentum going into the final part of the campaign but is wary of an "aggressive" Huddersfield side who are 15th in the league. "We have to give the fans something to cheer about. High tempo, score an early goal... it will be interesting to see how we manage," Benitez added." Islam Slimani is fit for the game and the on-loan Leicester striker could make his Newcastle debut after playing for Algeria in their international friendly against Iran earlier this week. (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru, editing by Pritha Sarkar) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:18 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  Five big U.S. airlines might add flights to Havana after some carriers dropped service to Cuba's capital. The Transportation Department proposed Friday that routes go to American, Delta, United, Southwest and JetBlue.  There could be 20 daily flights between the U.S. and Havana. The routes opened after Alaska Airlines, Spirit, Frontier and Delta dropped service because of weak demand. Traffic could suffer from the Trump administration's move to limit tourism. Americans must have one of 12 reasons to visit Cuba, including visiting relatives. American and Delta would each add one daily flight from Miami; Southwest would add one flight daily from Fort Lauderdale, Florida; United would fly six times a week from Houston; and JetBlue would fly six times a week more from Fort Lauderdale, once a week from Boston. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
California Today  By                     
 THOMAS FULLER and
 

 TYLER KEPNER
 
MARCH 30, 2018
 Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.) The Oakland Cannery is just the type of place that the city likes to promote as its heart and soul. The former Del Monte fruit processing facility has for several decades served as a live/work space for painters, musicians, fashion designers, writers and photographers. Then came Big Cannabis. Green Sage, a company that specializes in marijuana-related real estate, bought the Cannery for $14 million in November and told the building’s manager that it planned to use the space for marijuana manufacturing and would evict tenants from their rent-controlled apartments in January. (Green Sage did not respond to an email request for comment.) Oakland’s City Council has embraced the marijuana industry since recreational sales were made legal in January, and part of the city has been designated as a “green zone,” where marijuana businesses are allowed to operate. The area happens to overlap with neighborhoods where many industrial warehouses have been converted to live/work spaces. “The city never thought cannabis and the art world would collide, that there would be a conflict of interest,” said Rebecca Firestone, a writer and performance artist and one of about 35 residents at the Cannery. “I am in favor of the legalization of cannabis,” she continued. “But I would like to see everyone coexist.” Advertisement The tenants brought their case to City Hall, which was faced with the Solomonic choice between encouraging the cannabis industry or preserving affordable housing at a time when many people, not just artists, are finding it hard to afford life in the Bay Area. Advertisement The city chose the artists. This month the City Council voted to restrict cannabis businesses from operating in locations previously used as work/live or residential spaces. Alistair Monroe, a tenant who lives in the building with his 82-year-old father, says they are pleased with the City Council decision but fear that Green Sage could still evict tenants and use the building for other purposes. “That would force the majority of us out of the city,” Mr. Monroe said. “We are truly about the creative process that makes the fabric and the richness of the soul of the city.” The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • The Trump administration is expected to begin an effort in coming days to weaken vehicle emission standards set by the Obama administration that would have cut oil consumption by about 12 billion barrels and put the United States at the forefront worldwide in the manufacture of electric and highly fuel efficient vehicles. California is preparing for a fight. Xavier Becerra, the attorney general, is vowing to stick with the stricter rules even if Washington rolls back federal standards. [The New York Times] • A Latino boy in San Francisco’s public school system received all F’s from grade nine to the first semester of grade 12. It’s a stark example of what educators in the city euphemistically call the achievement gap. “Nothing has changed in years and years,” said the head of a community services center. “There’s no help. There’s no intervention.” [San Francisco Chronicle] • The Rev. Al Sharpton delivered a eulogy for Stephon Clark as Mr. Clark’s brother, Stevante, clutched Mr. Sharpton in grief. [Associated Press via US News] Advertisement • When Stephon Clark protesters shout in their faces, what’s a cop to do? [The Sacramento Bee] • Tesla looked like the future. Now some are asking if it has one. [The New York Times] • Judge Stephen Reinhardt, a liberal stalwart on the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals for nearly four decades, died Thursday. Among many other key decisions, he wrote a 2012 opinion striking down California’s gay marriage ban. [San Francisco Chronicle] • Hector Barajas, a military veteran deported to Mexico in 2004 is getting U.S. citizenship following a pardon last year by Gov. Jerry Brown. [San Diego Union Tribune] • They lived on opposite sides of Los Angeles, which made it a long-distance relationship. He was a middle-school teacher. She had health problems; she worried that her time was up and didn’t want to die a virgin. A Modern Love column was born. [The New York Times] • In a proposed ruling, a Los Angeles judge has determined that coffee companies must carry an ominous cancer warning label because of a chemical produced in the roasting process. [Associated Press via SFGate] • It was the first day on the job for Cali Brown, California’s Deputy First Dog. The puppy is a bordoodle, a cross between a border collie and a poodle. [Twitter] Her appointment was announced here. On baseball’s opening day Thursday the Giants beat the Dodgers 1-0. But it was just the start of a season for California teams with some high-profile additions to show off. As everyone remembers, the last baseball season ended at Dodger Stadium, where the Houston Astros squeezed the life from the home team in Game 7 of the World Series. The Dodgers cut ties with the goat of that series — the twice-thrashed starter Yu Darvish, who signed with the Chicago Cubs — but retain a strong roster in pursuit of their first championship in 30 years. Advertisement Three of their California neighbors made some of the splashiest additions of the off-season. The San Francisco Giants traded for the cornerstones of two faraway teams, acquiring third baseman Evan Longoria from the Tampa Bay Rays and outfielder Andrew McCutchen from the Pittsburgh Pirates. The San Diego Padres — rarely big spenders — gave out the richest contract on the free agent market, lavishing $144 million on an eight-year deal for first baseman Eric Hosmer, who won a World Series title and four Gold Gloves for the Kansas City Royals. In Anaheim, the Los Angeles Angels scored a coup when Shohei Ohtani, a pitching and hitting sensation from Japan, chose them over the field. Ohtani had a rocky spring training, but he started at designated hitter in Oakland on opening day Thursday and is scheduled to make his pitching debut against the A’s on Sunday. The Angels have still not won a playoff game with the sublime Mike Trout on their roster, but they’ll try to change that with help from Ohtani and new infielders Ian Kinsler and Zack Cozart. The A’s have finished in the American League West cellar in each of the last three seasons, and two of their most promising young pitchers — Jharel Cotton and A.J. Puk — learned in spring training that they needed Tommy John surgery. Even so, the A’s made a few additions, including catcher Jonathan Lucroy and right fielder Stephen Piscotty, who could help them move up a spot or two. As for the Dodgers, they will most likely face tougher competition in the National League West than the Padres and the Giants — especially after the Giants lost their ace, Madison Bumgarner, to a broken finger on his pitching hand last week. The Arizona Diamondbacks and the Colorado Rockies both won wild cards last season, and could challenge the Dodgers’ attempt to win their sixth division title in a row. Of course, for the Dodgers, winning the division is not the goal. The best pitcher on the planet, Clayton Kershaw, can opt out of his contract after the season. For all his individual success, Kershaw is missing the one thing Johnny Podres, Sandy Koufax, Don Drysdale, Fernando Valenzuela and Orel Hershiser all captured in Dodger blue: a championship ring. California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:54 P.M. E.D.T.
 MEMPHIS, Tenn. —  Visitors who plan to attend events at the National Civil Rights Museum in Tennessee commemorating the 50th anniversary Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination should be prepared to walk a bit. Chief marketing officer Faith Morris said Friday that roads will be blocked and public parking will be limited in the area surrounding the museum on the site of the old Lorraine Motel in Memphis. The museum is hosting several events honoring King next week. He was fatally shot at the motel on April 4, 1968. Morris expects "many more" people than the 15,000 who attended 40th anniversary events. A parking garage will be open at the FedExForum arena and shuttles will be taking people to and from the museum. Morris' advice: "Don't wear your cute shoes that day." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:30 P.M. E.D.T.
 FLAGSTAFF, Ariz. —  Crews are drilling at the bottom of the Grand Canyon to test the idea of shifting the area where water is drawn to serve millions of people at the national park's popular South Rim. The park's water supply comes from a natural spring that flows through 12.5 miles (20 kilometers) of pipeline. But the 1960s aluminum pipeline to the South Rim twists and turns around trails and through rocky terrain, frequently breaking and leaking. Each repair costs an average of $25,000. Instead of pulling water from Roaring Springs, officials are looking to get it farther downstream in Bright Angel Creek before it enters the Colorado River. The switch would eliminate 5 miles (8 kilometers) of pipeline that is most prone to breakages and preserve the lush spring environment, the park said. A helicopter flew in equipment this week to drill test and monitoring wells. A drill rig was being assembled Friday near a popular lodging by the creek known as Phantom Ranch, and the work will be completed over the next few days, stopping for mule traffic that shuttles people and supplies. Advertisement "We've gotten quite a bit of data, made some assumptions," project manager Kris Provenzano said. "By bringing a drill rig down to Phantom Ranch, we're going to be able to test those assumptions, make sure it's not connected to the Colorado River and make sure the quality is sufficient." Advertisement The $250,000 to $300,000 project is part of a larger study of how best to tackle the pipeline and ensure a consistent water supply for residents of Grand Canyon Village and the 6 million people who visit the national park each year. The South and North rims have storage tanks that could provide water during short-term repairs on the pipeline but longer-term fixes create more severe problems. A recent series of breaks forced South Rim restaurants to switch to disposable dishes and utensils. Laundry and showers for campers were shut down, and RV dump-fill stations were not available. Water in storage tanks reached sustainable levels, the park said, but sinks in public restrooms will stay turned off this weekend, with hand sanitizer available.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A rockslide last year damaged the pipeline leading to the North Rim, which took $1.5 million to repair over two weeks. The lodge there canceled reservations, and water had to be hauled in for drinking and firefighting. The focus, though, is on an overhaul of the South Rim extension of the pipeline. Provenzano said crews will pump water from the test well over the next few days. If data is promising, the Grand Canyon would propose new pump stations and treatment plants built over two to three years. Another option is replacing the entire pipeline with a more durable material along the same route. Grand Canyon officials have estimated the price tag at up to $120 million, partially funded by visitor entrance fees. It's among the top priorities for the National Park Service. The public would have a chance to weigh in on the options later this year. Sandy Bahr of the Sierra Club said evaluating a change in where the water is drawn makes sense. "It could potentially have less impact and could protect more of that spring environment, which we know the springs are big buckets of biodiversity," she said. "They're so important." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Tad Mcgalliard The recent cyberattack on Atlanta, in which the municipal government’s computers and related services were held hostage by a ransomware attack, is a reminder that local governments are particularly vulnerable to these and other cyberthreats. Local governments of all sizes and locations now own and operate a wide and growing array of internet-connected technology systems: employee-issued laptops, motion sensors on light poles and under pavement, mapping and informational systems inside police cars, online citizen-engagement tools and much more. Most local governments in the United States don’t have a strong grasp of the policies and procedures they should implement to protect their technology systems from attacks. This is especially concerning because the threat of a cyberattack is the most important cybersecurity problem they face, according to a survey conducted by the organization I work for, the International City/County Management Association, and the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. Forty-four percent of local governments report that they regularly face cyberattacks, on either an hourly or daily basis. More troubling is the high percentage of governments that do not know how often they are attacked (28 percent) or breached (41 percent). Further, a majority of local governments do not catalog or count attacks (54 percent). This is not just an American problem. Last month, at a conference in Tel Aviv, Tamir Pardo, the former head of Mossad, Israel’s national intelligence agency, said that most local government leaders around the world do not fully understand how serious a threat cyberattacks are and have not imaginatively assessed the consequences of inaction. He described cyberthreats as “soft nuclear weapons” that one day may be used to start and finish a war without firing a shot. So what should local governments do to improve their cybersecurity apparatus to help prevent or mitigate damage from future attacks like the one experienced in Atlanta, or from those contemplated by Mr. Pardo? First, local leaders must create a culture of cybersecurity that imagines worst-case scenarios and explores a range of solutions to mitigate threats to the ecosystem of local government technology. This should involve prioritizing funding for cybersecurity, establishing stronger cybersecurity policies and training employees in cybersecurity protocols. Success will require collaboration with local elected officials, internet-technology and cybersecurity staff members, department managers and end users. Cybersecurity is more than just the I.T. department’s problem. It must now also be a top priority along the entire chain of elected and appointed officials in and around local governments. Preventing and mitigating the effects of future attacks will require intergovernmental cooperation, because localities work together across state lines and collaborate with the federal government on crucial tasks like running elections, managing transportation and sharing intelligence. Most technological advances are transforming local governments for the better, moving them from inefficient and costly paper systems to digital systems that allow for better analysis and understanding of policy decisions. The science of analytics and big data promises even greater leaps for local governments in evidence-based policymaking. These exciting developments may one day radically alter the ways that traditional local government services are financed, operated and managed. But we cannot get lost in the excitement. We must actively prepare for cyberthreats of the sort that have been demonstrated in places like Atlanta. If smart cities and communities are the brightly lit days of the increasingly connected world of local government technology, cyberattacks are the dark and stormy nights. We don’t need to halt technological deployments and evolution, but we do need to recognize that cybersecurity is an essential counterpart. Tad McGalliard is the director of research and policy at the International City/County Management Association. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement Supported by On Soccer By Rory Smith BURNLEY, England — Jack Cork wears his status lightly. The Burnley midfielder has been aware of it since his brother pointed it out a few weeks ago, and he is proud of it, too. He is much too bashful to draw attention to it, though, and much too circumspect to read too much into it. Burnley has played 30 games in the Premier League this season: 2,700 minutes (plus injury time) of soccer in what is marketed as the most intense league in the world. And Cork has been there for every second of it. This status does not make Cork unique. There are 11 other players who have yet to miss a minute of the current Premier League season. The majority — as should be expected — are goalkeepers, the one position where conventional wisdom still decrees that permanence is paramount. The other four are central defenders. But since early March, Cork has been the only midfielder in the group. Dale Stephens, of Brighton, had been keeping pace with him, but then he picked up a minor training injury that ruled him out of a game at Everton. That left Cork standing alone. Except that Cork is never standing. Over the course of those 30 games, according to Tracab, which provides the Premier League’s official tracking data, Cork has run 227.4 miles. His nearest challenger, Abdoulaye Doucouré of Watford, has clocked up almost six miles fewer. Cork runs so much that he is amicably mocked for it at Burnley’s training ground. Natural modesty, of course, dictates that he seeks no credit for it. “Endurance, getting on with my job, is something that I’ve always been all right at,” he said in an interview before the start of the recent international break. It is the closest he gets to a self-compliment. Cork prefers, instead, to focus on all of the other factors, those things beyond his control, that have allowed him to be both ever-present and in perpetual motion. He has not picked up a suspension or an injury. Burnley has suffered occasional, mild dips in form, but rarely in performance (it took up residency in seventh place in the table in October and has surrendered it only briefly since), so he has not been shuffled out of the team because of poor results. Burnley is not in a European competition, either, nor has it had an extended run in either domestic cup, which for other midfielders at other clubs means a more onerous workload. But while all of that is true, it does not mean his achievements should be downplayed. His status as the Premier League’s ironman might be lightly worn, but that does not mean it was easily won. It would be easy to dismiss him as nothing more than a diesel engine, chugging his way through the season in a team that demands little more than industry. Such an interpretation, though, belies the work, and the detail, that has turned Cork into such a constant, and Burnley into a team that always seems to have every player in the perfect place. Embossed on a wall at Burnley’s training ground are the three elements the club’s coach, Sean Dyche, believes comprise a complete professional player: legs, hearts, minds. When he signed Cork from Swansea City last summer — a “no-brainer” of a deal, Dyche said — he knew the 28-year-old possessed the first two in spades; Dyche and Cork had worked together, briefly, at Watford earlier in their careers. All Dyche had to recalibrate, just a little, was Cork’s mind. Running, in the Premier League, is not merely physical. Dyche is just as conscious of the mental energy required, as he said, “to recognize the body shape of the opponent, to make sure you are on the right line of the pass, that you’re moving in shape with the team.” It is motion, but it is also thought. That, particularly against the division’s elite teams, can be especially demanding, Cork said. “It is a different type of running,” Cork said, singling out his experience of playing Manchester City, in particular. “It is a lot of side to side: It doesn’t look that hard, because it is not big, long runs, but those teams have so much quality that it is a lot of hard work. You have to concentrate: not just, are you running? But are you running in the right places, blocking the right passing lanes? You feel it a lot more.” To Dyche, overcoming that type of fatigue does not require work on the body, but the brain. “He has helped me to understand that fatigue is largely mental,” Cork said. He is not immune to tiredness — the festive period around Christmas, with five games in 14 days, was especially tough — but Dyche has taught him that “after the first 10 minutes, as soon as you get going, it comes back to you.” The message is delivered in preseason training. Cork describes those weeks before the campaign begins as hard work, but it is not a matter of simply flogging players into submission. Instead, Dyche aims “to show them, not persuade them” that they are capable of more than they might imagine. He runs two sessions, in particular, to “take them to places they might not think they want to go.” “At the end, we show them the statistics of what they have done,” Dyche said. “If we’d told them before that’s what they would do, they’d have thought it wasn’t possible. We show them it is. These are incredibly fit young men. Their bodies will take them to wherever they want to go.” During the season, as the games pile up, great care is taken to ensure Cork and the rest of Burnley’s regulars are not overloaded. “We have not just their tracking data, but all of the data going back five years,” Dyche said. Players’ physical outputs are measured constantly, against their own benchmarks, and those of predecessors in their positions. When the load is verging on too much, Dyche tweaks the schedule to allow the players to recover. When Cork first played for Burnley — on loan from Chelsea, a decade ago — the club’s facilities were rudimentary: the closest it had to a plunge pool was a trash can, adapted by the captain at the time, Graham Alexander, and filled with ice. Alexander eagerly jumped in for recovery sessions; others were a little more reluctant. Since the club opened its new training facility last summer, though, the players have every modern convenience available: hot and cold baths right next to the changing rooms (actual baths, not trash cans), regular cryotherapy sessions and a staff of masseurs, nutritionists and fitness specialists. Each player’s weight-training regimen is tailored to him specifically, posted to one of four iPads that hang on the walls of the club’s gym, and changed every week. “There are no excuses,” Cork said. Not that Burnley has many players who would look for them. Cork uses a striking word to describe easing off: not conserving energy, not economizing effort, but “cheating.” He would not countenance cheating, it is clear, and he would not be allowed to do so. And so, this season, Cork has not stopped running. He is nine months in now, and the end is in sight: only 8 more games, 720 more minutes. He does not intend to slow down now. He does not feel the need to. “You just get it out of your head in the first 10 minutes,” he said, “and get on with the game.” Follow Rory Smith on Twitter: @RorySmith.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By TARA PARKER-POPEMARCH 30, 2018
 Today’s teenagers have been raised on cellphones and social media. Should we worry about them or just get out of their way? A recent wave of student protests around the country has provided a close-up view of Generation Z in action, and many adults have been surprised. While there has been much hand-wringing about this cohort, also called iGen or the Post-Millennials, the stereotype of a disengaged, entitled and social-media-addicted generation doesn’t match the poised, media-savvy and inclusive young people leading the protests and gracing magazine covers. There’s 18-year-old Emma González, whose shaved head, impassioned speeches and torn jeans have made her the iconic face of the #NeverAgain movement, which developed after the 17 shooting deaths in February at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. Naomi Wadler, just 11, became an overnight sensation after confidently telling a national television audience she represented “African-American girls whose stories don’t make the front page of every national newspaper.” David Hogg, a high school senior at Stoneman Douglas, has weathered numerous personal attacks with the disciplined calm of a seasoned politician. Sure, these kids could be outliers. But plenty of adolescent researchers believe they are not. “I think we must contemplate that technology is having the exact opposite effect than we perceived,” said Julie Lythcott-Haims, the former dean of freshmen at Stanford University and author of “How to Raise an Adult.” “We see the negatives of not going outside, can’t look people in the eye, don’t have to go through the effort of making a phone call. There are ways we see the deficiencies that social media has offered, but there are obviously tremendous upsides and positives as well.” Advertisement “I am fascinated by the phenomenon we are seeing in front of us, and I don’t think it’s unique to these six or seven kids who have been the face of the Parkland adolescent cohort,” says Lisa Damour, an adolescent psychologist and author of “Untangled: Guiding Teenage Girls Through the Seven Transitions Into Adulthood.” Advertisement “They are so direct in their messaging. They are so clear. They seem unflappable.” Dr. Damour, who has spent her career talking and listening to teenagers, said she believes the Parkland teens are showing the world the potential of their peer group. “Those of us who live with teenagers and are around them can see something that is different about this generation,” she said. There is still much to learn about the postmillennial cohort — social scientists haven’t even agreed on when this generation begins, although there seems to be a consensus forming that the year 2000, give or take a few years, is a good place to start. But data collected from various health surveys already show that today’s teens are different from previous generations in many ways. Many risky behaviors have dropped sharply among today’s teens. Cigarette smoking among teens is at a historic low since peaking in the mid 1990s. Alcohol use has also declined significantly — the number of teens who have used alcohol in the past 30 days is down by half since the 1990s. Teen pregnancy rates have hit historic lows, and teens over all are waiting longer to have sex than their parent’s generation. Teen driving fatalities are down about 64 percent since 1975. Some of that is attributed to safer cars, but teen crashes have declined between 10 and 30 percent in states with tiered licensing systems, and teen drunken driving has dropped while teen seatbelt use has increased. While most health researchers celebrate these changes in teen health, some scientists think the trends suggest a lower level of maturity among today’s teens. Perhaps teens are safer simply because their reliance on social media and smartphone use means they are getting out less. In September, the journal Child Development published a study by Jean Twenge, a psychology professor at San Diego State University, noting that there is a decline in a number of “adult” activities among today’s teens. In seven large, nationally representative surveys of eight million American adolescents from 1976 to 2016, fewer adolescents in recent years are having sex, dating, drinking alcohol, driving, working for pay and going out without their parents. “The big picture is that they are taking longer to grow up,” said Dr. Twenge, whose latest book is “iGen: Why Today’s Super-Connected Kids Are Growing Up Less Rebellious, More Tolerant, Less Happy — and Completely Unprepared for Adulthood.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In an article in The Atlantic last fall titled “Have Smartphones Destroyed a Generation?,” Dr. Twenge argued that teens are more comfortable in their bedrooms or on smartphones or social media than at a party. While they are physically safer than past generations as a result, rates of teen depression and suicide are on the rise. “It’s not an exaggeration to describe iGen as being on the brink of the worst mental-health crisis in decades,” she wrote. “Much of this deterioration can be traced to their phones.” But a number of social scientists and adolescent health researchers disagree with that conclusion. While teen depression and suicide rates are worrisome, there is no causal link to show those trends are the result of smartphones and social media. In fact, a  literature review by Unicef researchers in December found that moderate use of digital technology tends to be beneficial for children’s mental well-being, while no use or too much use is associated with a “small negative impact.” The larger issues that affect a child’s well-being are family functioning, social dynamics at school and socio-economic conditions, the report concluded. Don Tapscott, author of “Grown Up Digital,” said he believes today’s teenagers are better communicators than any previous generation. “They didn’t grow up being the passive recipients of somebody else’s broadcast,” he said. “They grew up being interactors and communicators. In the 1960s we had a generation gap. What we have today is a generation lap — they are lapping their parents on the digital track.” Advertisement The clinical psychologist Wendy Mogel interviewed groups of middle school and high school students around the country in 2015 and 2016 for her new book, “Voice Lessons for Parents: What to Say, How to Say It and When to Listen.” Dr. Mogel spoke with diverse kids from various regions and walks of life, but found herself consistently impressed by their thoughtfulness, how much they liked their parents, and how much they cared about the world around them. “The press and general public like to see them as spoiled and not having to work hard for anything except grades and being very entitled,” Dr. Mogel said. “But they’re courageous, energetic, optimistic and really smart.” Neil Howe, a historian whose books include “Millennials Rising,” said that unlike earlier generations, today’s teens have accepted the structures of society and have learned to work within those boundaries. “They’re very good at using rules to make their point, and they’re absolutely excellent at negotiating with their parents, and negotiating in a reasonable way about how to bend these rules in a way that will make them more effective and give them more space,” he said. “This is not a ‘throw the brick through the window and burn stuff down’ group of kids at all. They’re working very constructively, arm-in-arm with older people they trust, to make big institutions work better and make them stronger and more effective.” Ms. Lythcott-Haims notes that the current crop of teenagers is the first generation to grow up with active shooter drills since kindergarten. “I think what we might have here is a generation that really defines itself by the markers of their childhoods,” she said. “In addition to being marked by these gun violence tragedies, they came to consciousness with a black man in the White House and smartphones in their hands.” What does all this mean for the future of today’s teens? All of the researchers agreed there is still much more to learn about this cohort, but what we know so far is promising. “We are in the process of distilling the data and discerning who they are, but I am excited,” said Ms. Lythcott-Haims. “We don’t know who they will be in their 20s, but already they have agency, the sense of your own existence, your own right to make decisions and your own responsibility for outcomes and consequences. That’s what we need to have to be mentally well. I think these folks could turn out not to be just leaders, but to be a generation that we look back on and end up calling one of the greatest.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:03 P.M. E.D.T.
 MENLO PARK, Calif. —  "We've made a bunch of mistakes." ''Everyone needs complete control over who they share with at all times." ''Not one day goes by when I don't think about what it means for us to be the stewards of this community and their trust." Sound familiar? It's Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg addressing a major privacy breach — seven years ago . Lawmakers in many countries may be focused on Cambridge Analytica's alleged improper use of Facebook data, but the social network's privacy problems go back more than a decade. Here are some of the company's most notable missteps and promises around privacy. 2007 The social media darling unveils its Facebook Platform to great fanfare. Zuckerberg says app developers can now access the web of connections between users and their friends, a set of connections Facebook calls the "social graph." Advertisement "The social graph is changing the way the world works," he says . That November, Facebook launches Beacon , which shares what users are doing on other websites with their Facebook friends. Many users find it intrusive and difficult to disable. Massachusetts resident Sean Lane buys his wife a diamond ring for Christmas on Overstock.com, but Facebook ruins the surprise , an incident leading to a class-action lawsuit. Advertisement In December, Zuckerberg apologizes and enables users to shut off Beacon. "I know we can do better," he says . 2008 Facebook launches Facebook Connect , aiming to correct Beacon's mistakes by requiring users to take deliberate action before they share activity from other websites when logged in using Facebook. More than 100 websites use the tool at launch, including CNN and TripAdvisor. 2009 Facebook announces "privacy improvements" after a yearlong review by Canada's Office of the Privacy Commissioner found that it geared its default privacy settings toward openness, failed to inform users their data would be used to serve ads, and leaked data to third party developers, including when their friends used apps. Facebook vows to encourage "users to review their privacy settings" but does not agree to all the recommendations. Beacon is officially shut down, settling Lane's class action lawsuit. The American Civil Liberties Union warns people that Facebook's default settings mean that when a friend uses an app or takes a quiz, the quiz- or app-maker can peer into your profile, even if you've made it private. 2010 App-makers exhibit a sophisticated grasp of data they can scoop from Facebook's social graph. The Wall Street Journal reports that many popular apps are transmitting personalized Facebook data to dozens of advertising and internet companies, among them, Zynga's breakout game FarmVille. Facebook responds by shutting down some apps. Prior to the Journal report, Facebook says it has redesigned its privacy tools, giving its 400 million users "the power to control exactly who can see the information and content they share. 2011 The Federal Trade Commission reaches a consent decree with Facebook after an investigation of its broken privacy promises to consumers. Advertisement The FTC alleges, among other things, that: —Facebook made its users' friend lists public in December 2009, even if they had been set to private, without telling them. —Even if users limited data sharing to "friends only," data was actually shared with third party apps that friends used. —Facebook failed to verify the security of apps it put on a "verified apps" list. —Facebook promised not to share personal information with advertisers, but did.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Facebook promises to submit to a privacy audit every two years for the next 20 years, and Zuckerberg owns up to mistakes. 2012 Facebook introduces new methods to help advertisers reach people in ways "that protect your privacy," including an encryption tool called Custom Audiences that lets marketers match the email addresses of sales leads to the addresses that Facebook users used to set up their accounts. Facebook also rolls out new privacy tools aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls. Among other things, it narrows the scope of app permissions so they don't suck in as much user data automatically. 2013 Facebook shares two-year-old anonymized data on billions of friendships between countries with Cambridge researcher Aleksandr Kogan and co-authors a research paper with him (published in 2015). Kogan creates a quiz app, installed by around 300,000 people , giving him access to tens of millions of their friends' data. 2014 Facebook says it dramatically limits the access apps have to friend data, preventing the type of data scoop Kogan and others were capable of. It also requires developers to get approval from Facebook before accessing sensitive data. Advertisement 2015 Facebook says it learns from Guardian journalists that Kogan has shared data with Cambridge Analytica in violation of its policies. It bans the app and asks Kogan and Cambridge Analytica to certify they had deleted the data. It rolls out "Security Checkup ," a new tool aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls. 2017 Facebook introduces "Privacy Basics ," a Frequently Asked Questions site aimed at simplifying its privacy controls. 2018 Facebook says it learns from The Guardian and other media outlets that Cambridge Analytica did not delete improperly obtained Facebook data and suspends the company, Kogan, and whistleblower Christopher Wylie from its service. Zuckerberg tells CNN that "I'm really sorry that this happened." He promises to audit app makers that gathered massive amounts of data prior to 2014 and to notify affected users. Amid calls for investigations in the U.S. and U.K., the FTC begins investigating whether Facebook broke its 2011 consent decree. "Our responsibility now is to make sure that this doesn't happen again," Zuckerberg says. Facebook redesigns its privacy settings menu on mobile devices and says in a blog post, "It's time to make our privacy tools easier to find." ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MICHAEL WINESMARCH 30, 2018
 The Trump administration’s decision to add a question on citizenship to the 2020 census, already the target of  lawsuits and broad criticism by statistics authorities, drew a new opponent on Friday: the experts who advise the Census Bureau itself. Those experts — prominent demographers, economists, engineers and others who make up the Census Scientific Advisory Committee — said in a statement that the decision was based on “flawed logic,” could threaten the accuracy and confidentiality of the head count and likely would make it more expensive to conduct. In the statement, addressed to the acting Census Bureau director, Ron Jarmin, the committee also said it worried about the “implications for attitudes about the Census Bureau,” an allusion to fears that the latest move jeopardized the bureau’s nonpartisan reputation. The citizenship question had been requested earlier this year by the Justice Department, which said it needed more detailed citizenship data to better enforce the 1965 Voting Rights Act. But civil-liberties and voting-rights groups have noted that the Voting Rights Act has been enforced for decades without such data. Advertisement Many of them say they see the move as an extension of the White House’s hostility toward immigrants — and as an attempt to depress the 2020 population count in immigrant-rich and predominantly Democratic areas in advance of redistricting in 2021. Advertisement “Because it is viewed as a strictly political decision, I think it doesn’t matter how much the Census Bureau says we will keep your data confidential,” D. Sunshine Hillygus, a Duke University political scientist and census scholar who sits on the panel, said Thursday at the committee’s semiannual meeting in Suitland, Md. “The Twitter commentary is about how this citizenship question is going to be used to target individuals who are not here legally.” Professor Hillygus noted that a Twitter hashtag, #leaveitblank, already is circulating online, urging people to refuse to answer the citizenship question. Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Commerce Secretary Wilbur L. Ross Jr. ordered the citizenship question added to the census on Monday, days before the April 1 deadline to submit a final list of questions to Congress for review. In a lengthy explanation, he said there was no “definitive, empirical support” for concerns that the question would cause noncitizens or legal immigrants to avoid filling out the census. He also noted that the general census had included a citizenship question as recently as 1950, and that the question was still asked in the American Community Survey, which the Census Bureau takes among a small segment of residents. Because the wording of the question will be taken from that survey, he stated, there was no need to give it the extensive, often yearslong testing given all other census queries. In its statement, the scientific advisory panel said Mr. Ross’s analysis was based on “data collected in a different data collection context, in a different political climate, before anti-immigrant attitudes were as salient and consequential” as they are today. The members also challenged his decision to forgo testing the question’s wording, saying it reflected different motivations and uses in the American Community Survey — including a reference to United States territories that would appear “puzzling” on the 2020 census. The last-minute decision to include the citizenship question prevented the bureau from putting it on its only full trial run of the head count, which began this month in Providence County, R.I. The panel urged the bureau to immediately begin testing the language of the query, saying that in the current charged atmosphere surrounding foreign-born residents, the question could lead respondents to misstate or avoid answering other questions about race and ethnicity. The committee worried as well that whatever citizenship data the bureau collected might inadvertently compromise the confidentiality of those who provided it. Federal law bars the bureau from releasing any information that specifically identifies respondents, and the bureau’s record of keeping data private is spotless. But the only citizenship data that is currently collected, from the American Community Survey, is aggregated into large parcels called census block groups. Advertisement In contrast, citizenship data collected in 2020 will be reported down to the bureau’s smallest geographic unit, called census blocks, which can be as small as an apartment building. So while individuals’ responses to the question would remain nominally private, block data could allow others to target small areas where noncitizens are reported to live. Senior census bureau officials at the committee’s meetings carefully avoided criticizing the decision to add the citizenship question, but at the same time admitted that they did not know how much — or even how — it would affect the head count. The bureau is polling 50,000 households and conducting 42 focus groups with minorities and other slices of the population to learn their attitudes toward the census. But “there’s a lot of uncertainty,” Mr. Jarmin said. “There’s no way of really testing what it’s going to look like.” While community organizations and minority groups have made their fears about the question clear, said Timothy Olson, the bureau’s associate director for field operations, some census offices have also seen shows of support, including an “unheard-of” 400 job applications received in one day. “Regardless of how you feel about it, it has elevated the awareness of 2020 to the population,” Mr. Olson said, “higher than I can recall in four decennials.” A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Census Bureau’s Panel of Experts Criticizes Adding Citizenship Question.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:00 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  The author of a provocative Facebook memo declaring that growth is justified even if it costs lives says he doesn't actually agree with the memo and wrote it to provoke debate. The 2016 internal memo, titled "The Ugly," was leaked to BuzzFeed this week. In it, Facebook executive Andrew Bosworth said "all the work we do in growth is justified," even if it costs people their lives because they are exposed to bullies or die in a terrorist attack coordinated through Facebook. Bosworth, who goes by "Boz," has been at Facebook since 2006 and serves as the company's vice president in charge of virtual- and augmented-reality efforts. Previously, he was vice president of ads and helped create Facebook features such as Messenger, its news feed and groups. Bosworth tweeted Thursday that the memo was one of the most unpopular things he's written internally, and "the ensuing debate helped shape our tools for the better." Advertisement In a statement to BuzzFeed that Facebook confirmed, CEO Mark Zuckerberg called Bosworth a "talented leader who says many provocative things," but added the memo was something "that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We've never believed the ends justify the means," Zuckerberg said in the statement. "We recognize that connecting people isn't enough by itself. We also need to work to bring people closer together. We changed our whole mission and company focus to reflect this last year." Facebook is grappling with an unprecedented crisis over allegations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm, obtained data of tens of millions of users without their permission with the intent of swaying elections. That followed a string of scandals, including revelations that Russia used its platform to meddle in U.S. elections. Advertisement Facebook is facing new questions about its practice of collecting call and text histories from Android devices. The company has not provided details on why it needed this data or what it did with it, saying only that it was used to improve people's experience on Facebook. It's not clear how the data collection made Facebook users' experience better on Android devices when Facebook couldn't get the same data from iPhones. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Follow Us: Get the Upshot in your Inbox 

      By ANNA FLAGG

MARCH 30, 2018
 
The link between immigration and crime exists in the imaginations of Americans, and nowhere else.
Related Article
 The Trump administration’s first year of immigration policy has relied on claims that immigrants bring crime into America. President Trump’s latest target is sanctuary cities. “Every day, sanctuary cities release illegal immigrants, drug dealers, traffickers, gang members back into our communities,” he said last week. “They’re safe havens for just some terrible people.” As of 2017, according to Gallup polls, almost half of Americans agreed that immigrants make crime worse. But is it true that immigration drives crime? Many studies have shown that it does not. Immigrant populations in the United States have been growing fast for decades now. Crime in the same period, however, has moved in the opposite direction, with the national rate of violent crime today well below what it was in 1980. In a large-scale collaboration by four universities, led by Robert Adelman, a sociologist at the State University of New York at Buffalo, researchers compared immigration rates with crime rates for 200 metropolitan areas over the last several decades. The selected areas included huge urban hubs like New York and smaller manufacturing centers less than a hundredth that size, like Muncie, Ind., and were dispersed geographically across the country. According to data from the study, a large majority of the areas have many more immigrants today than they did in 1980 and fewer violent crimes. The Marshall Project extended the study’s data up to 2016, showing that crime fell more often than it rose even as immigrant populations grew almost across the board. In 136 metro areas, almost 70 percent of those studied, the immigrant population increased between 1980 and 2016 while crime stayed stable or fell. The number of areas where crime and immigration both increased was much lower — 54 areas, slightly more than a quarter of the total. The 10 places with the largest increases in immigrants all had lower levels of crime in 2016 than in 1980. And yet the argument that immigrants bring crime into America has driven many of the policies enacted or proposed by the administration so far: restrictions to entry, travel and visas; heightened border enforcement; plans for a wall along the border with Mexico. This month, the Justice Department filed a lawsuit against California in response to the state’s restrictions on local police to assist Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers in detaining and deporting undocumented immigrants charged with crimes. On Tuesday, California’s Orange County signed on in support of that suit. But while the immigrant population in the county has more than doubled since 1980, overall violent crime has decreased by more than 50 percent.  There’s a similar pattern in two other places where Mr. Trump has recently feuded with local leaders: Oakland, Calif., and Lawrence, Mass. He described both cities as breeding grounds for drugs and crime brought by immigrants. But Oakland, like Orange County, has had increasing immigration and falling crime. In Lawrence, though murder and robbery rates grew, overall violent crime rates still fell by 10 percent. In general, the study’s data suggests either that immigration has the effect of reducing average crime, or that there is simply no relationship between the two, and that the 54 areas in the study where both grew were instances of coincidence, not cause and effect. This was a consistent pattern in each decade from 1980 to 2016, with immigrant populations and crime failing to grow together. In a majority of areas, the number of immigrants increased at least 57 percent and as much as 183 percent, with the greatest increases occurring in the 1990s and early 2000s. Violent crime rates in most areas ranged between a 43 percent decline and a 6 percent rise, often trending downward by the 2000s. Places with a sharp rise in the immigrant population experienced increases in crime rates no more frequently than those with modest or no growth in immigration. On average, the immigrant population grew by 137 percent between 1980 and 2016, with average crime falling 12 percent over the same period. Because the F.B.I. changed how rape was defined in its crime figures, that category could not be included in this analysis. Focusing on the other components of the violent crime rate — assaults, robberies and murders — still fails to reveal a relationship with immigration rates. Immigrantpopulation  Assaults  Robberies  Murders  Most areas experienced decreases in all types of violent crime. The change in assault rates ranged from a 34 percent decline to a 29 percent rise, while robbery rates declined in the range of 12 percent to 57 percent, and murder rates declined in the range of 15 percent to 54 percent. This analysis is one of the most comprehensive longitudinal studies of the local immigrant-crime relationship. It spans decades of metropolitan area data, incorporating places with widely differing social, cultural and economic backgrounds, and a broad range of types of violent crime. Areas were chosen to reflect a range of immigrant composition, from Wheeling, W.Va., where one in 100 people was born outside the United States, to Miami, where every second person was. Some areas were home to newly formed immigrant communities; other immigrant pockets went back generations. Controlling for population characteristics, unemployment rates and other socioeconomic conditions, the researchers still found that, on average, as immigration increases in American metropolises, crime decreases. The foreign-born data, which is collected through the census, most likely undercounts the numbers of undocumented immigrants, many of whom might wish to avoid the risk of identifying themselves. They are, however, at least partly represented in the overall foreign-born population counts. This is not the only study showing that immigration does not increase crime. A broad survey released in January examined years of research on the immigrant-crime connection, concluding that an overwhelming majority of studies found either no relationship between the two or a beneficial one, in which immigrant communities bring economic and cultural revitalization to the neighborhoods they join. This article was published in partnership with The Marshall Project, a nonprofit news organization covering the U.S. criminal justice system. Sign up for its newsletter, or follow The Marshall Project on Facebook or Twitter.  Anna Flagg is an interactive reporter for The Marshall Project. In the recent study, Mr. Adelman and his team collected crime and foreign-born population data for 200 metropolitan statistical areas for the years 1970, 1980, 1990, 2000 and 2010. The Marshall Project extended the data set to include 2016, obtaining foreign-born numbers from the American Community Survey one-year estimates and crime figures from the F.B.I. Uniform Crime Reporting Program metropolitan area data sets. When either foreign-born or crime information was unavailable for 2016, the corresponding 2015 data was substituted. Some metropolitan areas changed over time, growing to include additional regions, or splitting into separate ones. The Marshall Project consulted with the study researchers to determine when a larger area was still an appropriate match to the original described in the study. When an area split into components, raw data from each was added to calculate rates approximating the original region. When no reasonable approximation to the original area could be found, it was marked as missing for 2016. When an area was missing information for a certain year, that year's data was interpolated using figures from the closest year available. For example, crime numbers were unavailable for Chicago for 2000 and 2010. Data for those years was linearly interpolated using the 1990 and 2016 figures. Charlotte, N.C., was not included in either the 2016 or 2015 U.C.R. metropolitan area data sets, so data from 2010, the most recent year with available data for this area, was used as an estimate. Advertisement
Advertisement By TIM ARANGOMARCH 30, 2018
 LOS ANGELES — John Weber was rummaging through old boxes the other day, looking for memories, when he found a bunch of old baseball and flag football trophies. He has kept other things, too, like a neatly pressed R.O.T.C. uniform, a reminder that he once hoped to steer his son, Anthony, to the Army and away from the streets. “It’s all I’ve got left,” he said. On Super Bowl Sunday, after rooting for the Patriots against the Eagles, Anthony Weber left a friend’s apartment to go for dinner with his girlfriend at The Kickin’ Crab, her favorite restaurant. Around the same time, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department received a 911 call. A black man with a gun was threatening a motorist. The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Soon, Anthony — a mixed race 16-year-old, was dead in a darkened courtyard of a run-down apartment complex, with no gun anywhere around. Advertisement Nearly two months later, with questions still unanswered, the spot is a makeshift memorial of candles, balloons, flowers, photographs, and placards from rallies. “Jail killer cops!” reads one. “No gun = no alibi = murder,” reads another. Long before police shootings and protests in Ferguson, Mo., or Sacramento focused America’s attention on how the police treat black men, Los Angeles was a byword for police brutality and racism. Years of effort after the 1991 beating of Rodney King, the riots that followed, and later, the Rampart police corruption scandal, have succeeded in changing the culture of policing in the city to a great extent. There is less overt racism, many people in Los Angeles say, and police forces have been reshaped to better reflect the city’s diversity. Advertisement Yet to Anthony Weber’s family, to the Black Lives Matter activists drawn to the case, and to many residents of South Los Angeles, an area still rife with crime and poverty, his death and its aftermath are signs of how much more needs to change on their streets, and how the police can be too quick to use deadly force against black men. “We are light-years from where we were, and light-years from where we need to be,” said Connie Rice, a civil rights lawyer who began suing the Los Angeles Police Department in the 1990s, and lately has worked with the department on new approaches to policing. The neighborhood is not the South Los Angeles of the 1980s and 1990s, when gang wars and the crack epidemic were devastating many lives. Crime has fallen drastically, as it has in many big cities across America. There were more than 1,000 murders in a single year in the city of Los Angeles in the 1990s, but the rate today is less than 300 a year. Even so, gangs are still ubiquitous, and the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department has said that Anthony was involved with them, an allegation that has outraged activists. “First they kill our bodies, then they kill our characters,” said Melina Abdullah, a professor at California State University, Los Angeles, and a Black Lives Matter organizer. Anthony’s father said, “In South Central, everyone is associated with gangs — it’s just a part of being able to walk to school.” He said Anthony “associated” with neighborhood gang members but was “not a criminal gang member.” Advertisement By Mr. Weber’s own account, Anthony struggled. But his past, Mr. Weber said, was irrelevant to his killing. Anthony’s mother, Demetra Johnson, said that her son “smoked and had a baby at 16,” but she maintained that “he was not a thug or killer, like they are trying to portray.” She said she had always counseled her son, whom everyone called A.J., that on the streets, he would be regarded with suspicion by the police, especially if he was hanging out with a group of friends. The sheriff’s department said that the deputies involved in the case believed Anthony had a gun, and that he had refused to obey an order to halt and had run away. When the deputies chased him, according to the department’s statement, Anthony “turned toward the deputies, and that was when a deputy-involved shooting occurred.” No gun was found at the scene. The department said it must have been lost in the immediate aftermath of the shooting, possibly taken by a bystander. “As you can imagine, until you are at one of these scenes, you don’t have an appreciation for just how chaotic they get, how dangerous potentially,” Sheriff Jim McDonnell told  KPCC, a public radio station, about the deputies’ failure to find a gun. “You don’t know which additional threats are in the environment, either,” the sheriff said. But witnesses and the family’s lawyer, Gregory A. Yates, say the deputies secured the scene immediately, and that no one else had any chance to get close and grab a dropped gun. Activists and members of Anthony Weber’s family say they have no doubt where things will end up: exoneration for the deputies, the details fading from public memory, and eventually, perhaps after years, a quiet payout to the family from the county. Advertisement In Los Angeles, law enforcement officers are rarely held criminally accountable for shootings. The last time a police officer in the city faced criminal charges for a shooting while on duty was in 2000; the shooting was not fatal and the officer pleaded no contest. The 2014 shooting of Ezell Ford, an unarmed black man, by the Los Angeles Police Department, galvanized the local chapter of Black Lives Matter, but the officers were not charged. Mr. Ford’s family sued the city and received a $1.5 million settlement last year. An officer involved in another controversial police shooting was cleared this month. The district attorney’s office declined to bring charges against the officer for killing an unarmed homeless man in the Venice neighborhood, even though the police department’s own investigation determined that the shooting was not justified and recommended criminal charges. The city reached a $4 million settlement with the victim’s family. Both the officer and victim were black. The Venice case is emblematic of the broader frustrations of the Black Lives Matter movement over a lack of progress, despite national attention to the problem. “We’re absolutely frustrated,” Ms. Abdullah said. “I’m in a state of rage.” Fatal shootings by police officers in the United States have held steady at roughly 1,000 a year over the last three years, according to a tally kept by The Washington Post. But there is no standardized federal database to track police shootings, despite repeated calls after the shooting in Ferguson to create such a system. The latest incident to stir racial tensions and protests happened in Sacramento, where police officers shot and killed a young black man in his backyard who they thought was waving a gun. It turned out to be a cellphone. Activists in Los Angeles say police shootings are still distressingly numerous. Last year, officers were involved in 78 shootings in Los Angeles County, down slightly from previous years, according to the Los Angeles district attorney. In New York, by comparison, there were 23 police shootings last year, the lowest total on record. According to an investigation by KPCC, the public radio station, which pieced together data from a variety of sources, the number of shootings by law enforcement officers in Los Angeles County has remained roughly stable for the past 18 years. In the period from 2010 to 2014, the station found, 24 percent of the fatalities in those shootings were black, though black residents make up just 8 percent of the population. Advertisement Changes in police policy have built up “just enough fabric of trust to weather the shooting of a resident without a riot,” Ms. Rice said. Anthony Weber’s death may not fit neatly into the familiar narrative of racially tinged police violence — of a white cop shooting a black man — but his case does fit the narrative of modern Los Angeles. Areas like South Los Angeles that were once predominantly African-American — and were the epicenter of uprisings against police abuses in 1965 and 1992 — have become increasingly Latino, and increasingly diverse. Anthony had a white father, a black mother and a Latino girlfriend. Law enforcement in Los Angeles has also become more diverse: White males are now in the minority in both the police and the sheriff’s department, and Latino and black officers are represented on the force in proportions roughly mirroring the population at large. But greater diversity has not ended longstanding police biases against black men, according to the shooting data as well as the perceptions of activists. “They shot him because he’s black!” was chanted by protesters at the first rally after Anthony Weber was killed. “The last cop who put a boot in Rodney King’s face was black,” said Steven A. Lerman, a lawyer who represented Mr. King. “It doesn’t seem to be white versus black, but blue versus take-your-pick.” The sheriff’s department has not disclosed the race or identity of the deputy who shot Anthony. Sitting in the Weber family’s living room on a recent afternoon, surrounded by photographs of Anthony, were four generations of women. Mattie Johnson, Anthony’s grandmother, moved to Los Angeles in 1964 — a year before the Watts riots — hoping to escape the cruelties of segregation and racism in Birmingham, Ala. She recalled Ku Klux Klan marches and a church bombing there that killed four young black girls. The women all considered Anthony’s death to be of a piece with the long arc of America’s history of racism. Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. If things had been different, Anthony Weber might have been the one behind the pulpit at the funeral the other day in South Los Angeles. He loved the music of the church, and he sure loved the spotlight. Advertisement “He was just a natural charmer,” said his mother, Demetra. “He wanted attention. Which could make him difficult, too. Trust me, I gave him attention. But he always wanted more.” At his funeral, a former teacher called him her “wonder boy,” who worked hard to reach age 16. His sister spoke about the unfairness that “he never got the chance to be a man.” Mixed with the grief and the music of R. Kelly and the O’Jays at the service, there were hints of anger, too. “We’re having trouble finding out what happened to him,” his father said. “They’re not being transparent.” Rodney Hilson, speaking from long experience as a pastor in South Los Angeles, said simply, “I’m tired of this.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MARC TRACYMARCH 30, 2018
 SAN ANTONIO — Long before a 98-year-old nun became the biggest star of the 2018 N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, Immaculata, a small Catholic college outside Philadelphia, won the first three de facto national women’s basketball championships. The Mighty Macs’ titles in the early 1970s, Bill Russell’s breakout success at the University of San Francisco in the 1950s and the presence of Villanova and Loyola-Chicago at this weekend’s Final Four are just three data points among many that prove an undeniable fact: In college basketball, Catholic schools have long punched well above their weight. The reasons stretch back a century — and, some would argue, to the New Testament itself. “It is a real thing,” said Julie E. Byrne, a professor of religion at Hofstra University who studies American Catholicism. As the Final Four coincides with Easter weekend, this phenomenon is as real as ever. Half the No. 1 seeds in this tournament were Catholic teams, as were eight of the 64 teams that made the bracket. Loyola is named for St. Ignatius of Loyola, the founder of the Jesuits, and has Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt as its chaplain and unofficial scout. Villanova is associated with the Augustinian Order. Both are still playing. Advertisement On Saturday, Loyola, a No. 11 seed, will play third-seeded Michigan, before Villanova, the 2016 champion, faces a fellow top seed, Kansas. Excelling in big-time college basketball sits easily at mission-oriented institutions. Sports are not only these universities’ front porch, but also the faith’s emissary. Advertisement Villanova’s president, the Rev. Peter M. Donohue, hosts an opening Mass for athletes every year, where he reminds them they are ambassadors for the university’s mission. “To have our charism move on,” he said, using a dogma-tinged Greek word for spirit, “the banner needs to be carried.” The history of basketball excellence at Catholic colleges stretches back as long as the tournament itself. In its early decades, Holy Cross, La Salle, San Francisco and Loyola racked up titles; Marquette’s golden age was in the late 1960s and ’70s; the 1985 Final Four included three Catholic schools (St. John’s, Georgetown and Villanova); and Gonzaga has had an extraordinary run of 20 consecutive tournament berths, including in last year’s championship game. Catholic hoops excellence is all the more stark when one looks at college sports’ broader landscape: Of the 65 members of the five football power conferences, only two are Catholic institutions — Boston College and Notre Dame. Theological explanations are tempting. “Of course,” joked the Rev. James Martin, the author of “The Jesuit Guide to (Almost) Everything,” “St. Ignatius of Loyola is praying for all these schools. Even Villanova.” But there is more than just something in the holy water. Several characteristics of Catholicism in America, both sociological and spiritual, have helped determine this affinity; the Catholic Church’s decision not to abandon the urban poor in America in the second half of the 20th century, when so many other institutions did, was particularly significant. Much of Catholic education’s historic commitment to basketball derives from demographics. Several decades ago, many American Catholics were working-class urbanites, clustered in some of the same cities — New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, San Francisco, New Orleans — in which these schools rose up. Advertisement “Many of our schools were founded to serve immigrants and the working class — Catholics unable to get into other schools,” Martin said. In basketball, with its inexpensive overhead, compact field of play and small number of participants, they found a sport that suited them. (The same was true of working-class Jews, for whom basketball also possesses a striking similarity with their religion — a prayer service and a regulation basketball game both require 10 people.) Many of these same Catholic basketball powers field lower-profile football teams, when they do at all (Loyola discontinued its varsity program in 1930), because of the expense of a roster close to 80 people. “Basketball was the sport they picked because it was so cheap,” Byrne, the Hofstra professor, said. “They could do it in incredibly limited space with incredibly limited equipment.” Over time, the schools became a magnet for black players, including luminaries such as Bill Russell (University of San Francisco) and the championship Loyola-Chicago team of 1963, which broke an unspoken rule by starting four black players. Black athletes, Catholic or not, often landed at these colleges partly because they frequently played basketball for the local chapter of the Catholic Youth Organization, which was originally founded as a kind of urban, Catholic parallel to the predominantly Protestant Y.M.C.A.s. The C.Y.O.s set many black players on the path toward Catholic colleges. “As more and more ethnic Catholics moved out of cities but parishes and schools stayed put, black kids were admitted regardless of religious affiliation beginning in the ’60s,” James T. Fisher, an American Studies professor at Fordham, said in an email. “Then the church turned demographic fact into theological virtue by embracing urban advocacy and racial justice.” It also made competitive sense. Much as a New Yorker, Frank McGuire, won the 1957 title at the University of North Carolina by taking several first- and second-generation Irish- and Jewish-Americans from the New York metropolitan area down to Chapel Hill, another coach from New York, Al McGuire (no relation), used his personality — his charism? — to recruit black players to Marquette, in Milwaukee, in the 1960s and ’70s, when many state schools still had unwritten quotas. “He sold kids and families on the fact that: ‘Hey, I’m a white Irish Catholic. I didn’t grow up in the neighborhood, but I grew up next door to it,’ ” Fisher said. Advertisement There is nothing in Catholic dogma that specifically elucidates the virtues of basketball. Yet several scholars pointed to elements of American Catholicism that helped persuade schools to embrace sports. Jesuit philosophy — embedded at so many top basketball schools, such as Gonzaga, Xavier, Creighton and Georgetown — extends to all aspects of life. It preaches cura personalis, or “care for the person” — in not only the intellectual and spiritual sense, but the physical one, too. Catholicism in America taught that all aspects of life could be sacred, Byrne said, maybe even basketball. “It’s not that sports were particularly holy, but you could see it as a holy thing to do. It could have the potential to give glory to God,” said Byrne, referencing the Jesuit phrase “ad majorem Dei gloriam,” or “for the greater glory of God.” For St. Joseph’s Coach Phil Martelli, these teachings comport with the sport that he called the “greatest societal experiment.” “In basketball, it doesn’t matter if you’re black or white, rich or poor, city or suburbs,” said Martelli, whose wife, Judy Marra Martelli, played on those three Immaculata championship teams. “And in the Catholic faith, you shouldn’t be measured by those things — your W-2 or what you drive. You should be measured by your character.” An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misspelled the surname of a man posing with Bill Russell of the University of San Francisco. He is the Rev. Ralph Tichenor, not Tichnor. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Hallowed Be Thy Teams.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By TRIP GABRIELMARCH 30, 2018
 One thing has become clear about the midterm elections, which will determine the political script for the rest of President Trump’s term: Pennsylvania is where much of the action will be. Democrats eager to take control of the House of Representatives see rich opportunities in Pennsylvania to pry seats from Republican hands. Swarms of candidates have filed to run in the state’s primary on May 15. And polling data published on Thursday showed strong advantages for the Democrats, in a swing state where Republicans have had the upper hand in recent years. Two developments are converging to give Pennsylvania its outsize role: New congressional districts drawn by the State Supreme Court make the map more of an equal playing field; and a special-election upset by a Democrat in one of the reddest parts of the state signaled an incipient blue wave. Democrats appear to be in position to flip at least three, and perhaps as many as six, of Pennsylvania’s 18 House seats, according to strategists from both parties. That could represent a quarter of the 24-seat gain they need nationwide to take control of the House. Advertisement “Pennsylvania will be the epicenter of the political world this fall,” said Charlie Gerow, a Republican strategist in the state. With so many seats in play, he predicted that “gobs of money” would flow in. Advertisement The prospect has caused a geyser of candidates: As of Tuesday, 58 Democrats and 35 Republicans were seeking House seats, according to the Department of State. Behind the altered political terrain are two restive groups of voters. College-educated suburbanites outside Philadelphia are angry at Mr. Trump and in a mood to send him a message. And blue-collar voters in western Pennsylvania are suddenly up for grabs, after they turned out strongly in the special election this month to elect a moderate young Democrat, Conor Lamb, over a Republican who ran as a wingman to the president. In the Philadelphia suburbs, three Republican incumbents who have seen the writing on the wall are retiring, and a fourth is stepping down after a sexual harassment scandal. The latest to retire is Representative Ryan Costello, who announced his decision over the weekend, citing the difficulty of being heard over the cacophony from the White House. The shifts outside Philadelphia mirror changes in suburbs around the country, as Mr. Trump’s policies and behavior have pushed away college-educated voters. The Pew Research Center reported this week that more voters with a four-year college degree now identify as Democrats or lean Democratic — 54 percent — than at any time since 1994. Philadelphia’s suburbs were once so reliably Republican that Ronald Reagan’s cabinet included three residents of Montgomery County alone. But the region’s allegiance began to shift as well-educated and culturally liberal voters came to predominate in the suburbs in the 1990s. 
                A full list of elections for the House and Senate, including which races matter most for congressional control.             The tide was held back in the last decade by gerrymandered congressional districts drawn by Republicans to protect their candidates. But that map was thrown out by the state court in January, and Republicans lost appeals to have the United States Supreme Court intervene. The state's new districts hew more compactly to county and town boundaries. Two nonpartisan handicappers of House races, the Cook Political Report and Sabato’s Crystal Ball, now rate four Republican-held seats in the Philadelphia suburbs as either “solidly” Democratic, “likely” to fall into the party’s hands, or “leaning” that way. The chairman of the Pennsylvania Republican Party, Val DiGiorgio, declined to comment. Advertisement “This is a big wave coming our way,” said Representative Charlie Dent, a Republican from the Lehigh Valley north of Philadelphia, who is not running for re-election. “I’d get off the beach.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mr. Dent, whose seat is a potential Democratic pickup, predicted that the midterm elections will be a referendum on Mr. Trump’s conduct. “What’s hampering us is this never-ending drama and chaos that seems to emanate from the White House,’’ Mr. Dent said. A fifth seat in the Philadelphia suburbs, based in Bucks County, is held by Representative Brian Fitzpatrick, a Republican whose new district voted narrowly for Hillary Clinton in 2016. Mr. Fitzpatrick has a record of attracting crossover votes from Democrats and enjoys the advantages of incumbency but is in his first term. “If you’re going to get incumbents, you typically knock them off in their first term,” Mr. Gerow said. At the other end of the state, Mr. Lamb, a former Marine and prosecutor, is running his second race of the year, this time in a new district against an incumbent, Representative Keith Rothfus, a Republican who was once paired by a political blog in a celebrity look-alike feature with the cartoon character Milhouse. The new district, the 17th, is more evenly balanced in its partisan leanings than the former 18th District, where Mr. Lamb won his upset victory in part by reawakening dormant Democratic DNA in white working-class voters who had supported Mr. Trump. Mr. Rothfus, by contrast, is “several clicks to the right” of his new district, according to one Republican official who spoke on condition of anonymity to candidly assess the race. Another Republican who was shifted to a more competitive district is Representative Scott Perry, who represents Harrisburg and York in central Pennsylvania. Mr. Perry is the only member of the far-right Freedom Caucus in the state’s Congressional delegation. Mr. Trump won his old district by 21 percentage points; the new map places him in territory the president carried by only nine. Five Democrats are seeking their party’s nomination to run against Mr. Perry. Republicans predominate in the new district, but one strategist called them “softer Republicans,” many of them employed by state government. Mr. Perry may be out of step with many of his new constituents. G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., said Democrats have the popular wind at their backs. In a poll of Pennsylvania voters he released on Thursday, 53 percent who are “very interested” in the election said they would vote for a Democratic House candidate, against 30 percent who planned to vote Republican. And Mr. Trump’s job approval rating in Pennsylvania is just 30 percent in the new poll. “We’re seven months out, but it looks like there’ll be a Democratic wave,” Mr. Madonna said. The question, he said, is whether it will be modest or boat-swamping. An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the chairman of the Pennsylvania Republican Party. He is Val DiGiorgio, not DiGregorio. A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: How Will the Midterm Elections Play Out? Pennsylvania May Be a Bellwether.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By DAN LEVINMARCH 30, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  Russia retaliates, migrants in limbo and celebrating Passover in Spain. Here’s the latest: • Russia hits back. The Kremlin announced that it would expel 150 Western diplomats and close the American Consulate in St. Petersburg, above, as tit-for-tat retaliation continues over a nerve-agent attack on British soil that London and its allies have attributed to Moscow. Britain said it would review the cases of 700 wealthy Russians who were granted visas largely because they could invest millions of dollars. It also signaled an openness to blocking the Russian government from British financial markets. The moves came on a day of good news in the poisoning attack. Yulia Skripal, who was attacked with her father, Sergei Skripal, “is no longer in critical condition.” _____ • “Why am I here?”  Two years after the E.U. and Turkey struck a deal to halt the flow of asylum seekers, thousands remain stranded on the Greek island of Lesbos. Advertisement One of our reporters visited a holding camp on the island, above, where she found miserable conditions and growing despair among those unable to move on, yet unwilling to go home. Advertisement Stuck in limbo, their plight reflects the enduring humanitarian toll of the migration crisis, which is expected to grow again as winter fades. _____ • Jeremy Corbyn, the British Labour Party’s most left-wing leader in decades, has galvanized supporters eager to get rid of the country’s Conservative government. But a mounting crisis over accusations of anti-Semitism has recharged a bitter argument about his leadership and forced many liberal British Jews to question whether they still have a political home in the party. _____ • It’s a date. North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea agreed to meet for the first time on April 27. They’ll get together in the truce village of Panmunjom at Peace House, above, meaning that Mr. Kim would become the first leader from the North to set foot in the South since the Korean War. Mr. Kim has signaled that he would meet with President Trump, though no date has been set. _____ • In Denmark, breaking up is about to get … slower. A push to digitalize official services makes it easy for Danes to view public records and even get divorced online. Advertisement Maybe too easy, at least in a country with one of Europe’s highest divorce rates. So instead of ending their marriages in a few clicks, couples with children will soon be legally required to wait three months — and get counseling. The change is a rare government acknowledgment that technological innovation can’t solve every societal problem. • The Facebook scandal was a reminder: You’ve entrusted your digital life to a surveillance machine. Can social media be saved? Our columnist offers some solutions. • An astonishing $100 billion: That’s how much Facebook has lost in market capitalization since Feb. 2. The plunge has investors wary of other social media and internet stocks. • Hacked: Data was stolen from 150 million users of the MyFitnessPal nutrition app, according to its owner, Under Armour. The security breach involved user names, email addresses and passwords. • The U.S. plans to invoke an emergency law to limit Chinese investment in sensitive technological sectors, ranging from microchips to 5G wireless. • U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Former President Nicolas Sarkozy of France will stand trial on influence-peddling charges, the latest in his series of mounting legal woes. [The New York Times] • Christopher Steele, the author of the notorious Trump dossier, provided a secret report to the F.B.I. asserting that a former Russian minister was murdered in Washington by enforcers hired by an oligarch close to Vladimir Putin. [BuzzFeed] What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • Robert Mercer, the billionaire Trump donor behind Cambridge Analytica, secretly volunteers as a police officer. But he’s not doing it to protect the public. Rather, the badge lets him carry a concealed gun anywhere in the U.S. [Bloomberg] Advertisement • In the U.S., the Fox News host Laura Ingraham apologized for taunting a survivor of last month’s school shooting in Parkland, Fla., as at least four companies confirmed they would pull ads from her show. [The New York Times] • Protesters rallied in Ireland and Northern Ireland after two professional rugby players were acquitted of rape. [The Guardian] • Malala Yousafzai, the world’s youngest Nobel laureate, returned to her native Pakistan for the first time since she was gravely wounded there as a child by a Taliban attack in 2012. [The New York Times] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. •Recipe of the day: End the week with a quick, delicious dinner of pan-roasted salmon with jalapeño. • Use these tips to throw a healthy and relaxed dinner party. • Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette. • The Jewish holiday of Passover, celebrating liberation and rebirth, begins tonight. In an Opinion piece, a writer traveling through Europe explores the joy and sadness of observing this ancient tradition in Spain, a “land of Jewish ghosts.” • Last week we told you about Ata, a tiny mummy once rumored to be an alien. Now, Chile wants to know how the skeleton was exhumed and smuggled abroad, and researchers have called the medical study unethical. Are you familiar with the term “March Madness”? Americans are awash in it, but for their colleagues abroad, here’s the short form. Advertisement U.S. college basketball’s signature tournament has reached its peak: The Final Four is on Saturday, setting up the championship game on Monday. Here’s our full coverage. The N.C.A.A. tournament, also known as the Big Dance, is among the most cherished rites of American sports. About 350 colleges and universities field teams in the top division, compared with 65 in football. At the end of the regular season, 68 teams move on to a knockout tournament. The first men’s tournament was held in 1939, and for more than a decade only eight teams were invited. The women’s tourney started in 1982. The moniker “March Madness” became part of pop vernacular in the mid-1980s, stemming from the David-versus-Goliath upsets that always shock players, coaches, fans and bookmakers. The odds of picking a perfect bracket are 1 in 9.2 quintillion. Even so, it’s almost a duty of U.S. citizenship to fill out a tournament bracket. (Last year, ESPN.com reported that some 70 million brackets were filled out and $10.4 billion was wagered.) The men’s Final Four consists of Kansas, Michigan Villanova and Loyola-Chicago, a team that entered as a 300-to-1 underdog and wasn’t supposed to win its first game. In the women’s tournament, Connecticut, Louisville, Mississippi State and Notre Dame are the last teams standing. Matt Futterman contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. Advertisement What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com. Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By The Associated Press ATLANTA — Atlanta police officers initially had to write reports by hand. Residents still can't pay water bills online. Municipal court dates are being reset. All are fallout from a ransomware attack last week that hobbled the city's invisible infrastructure. Another ransomware attack hit Baltimore's 911 dispatch system over the weekend, prompting a roughly 17-hour shutdown of automated emergency dispatching. The Colorado Department of Transportation suffered two attacks just over a month ago. And the North Carolina county that's home to Charlotte totally rebuilt its system after a December attack. For cash-strapped local governments, paying for robust protection against the invisible menace of a cyberattack can be a hard sell. But cyberattacks continue to proliferate, and experts say preparation and strong defensive measures are necessary to avoid the crippling effects. "As elected officials, it's often quite easy for us to focus on the things that people see because, at the end of the day, our residents are our customers," Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said at a news conference Monday. "But we have to really make sure that we continue to focus on the things that people can't see, and digital infrastructure is very important." Although it's vital to make sure systems are up to date and have the latest patches, malware evolves so quickly that experts also stress the importance of comprehensive backups and a quick response when an attack does happen. "I don't think any security is flawless," said Craig McCullough, a vice president at security firm Commvault. "I always approach it from the standpoint of it's not a matter of if but when, and when it happens, are you prepared? Are you going to be able to get your data back?" Governments, public agencies and companies need to know what data they have and make sure it's backed up. Software and hardware can be replaced, but data is much more difficult, McCullough said. A quick response can help minimize the damage, said Dmitri Alperovitch, chief technology officer of security firm Crowdstrike. If a threat is detected immediately after it enters the network — for example, when someone clicks on a link in a phishing email or through a vulnerable server — it might be possible to stop before it spreads beyond the initially infected computer, he said. Atlanta officials won't say whether they'll pay the $51,000 ransom, though Bottoms has said all options are on the table. Mike Cote, president of Secureworks, a security firm hired by Atlanta, has said they know who's behind the attack but aren't releasing that information. Cybersecurity experts say the attack is consistent with the SamSam group, which is known as a sophisticated attacker and negotiator, said Jake Williams, founder of security firm Rendition Infosec. Unlike other ransomware that might raise alarms upon infection, SamSam compromises machines without immediately locking up their files. That access is then used to spread through the network "before they press the encrypt button," Williams said. "They put you into an extreme pain point position where paying is actually an attractive option," Williams said He said he regularly tells clients they must make a business decision on whether to pay. He acknowledges that can be more difficult for governments, whose rules might block them from spending public funds on extortion. Although Atlanta's critical physical infrastructure — including the city's airport, emergency response systems and water safety and treatment — were not directly affected, other departments are operating manually and some services have been suspended. Nuisances at first, issues caused by the outages could have compounded effects if they persist. The mayor has been cautious, declining to give a timeline for when things might be up and running again after the cyberattack announced March 22. She has repeatedly said the investigation and recovery is "a marathon, not a sprint," and her focus is on making sure the city's network is safe moving forward. But the road could be long. The Colorado Department of Transportation was hit by a SamSam attack on Feb. 21 and again on March 1, and it was back to 80 percent functionality by Thursday said Deborah Blyth, the state's chief information security officer. Luckily, they had strong backups so they didn't even think about paying the ransom, she said. In the weeks since the attack, they've implemented two-factor authentication for remote access and accelerated the implementation of other security measures that were already planned. In Mecklenberg County, North Carolina, where Charlotte is located, it took a little more than 60 days for things to return to normal after a ransomware attack that began with a phishing email in December. County officials didn't pay the ransom after consulting with federal authorities and realizing their data was backed up so they didn't need to pay to get it back, County Manager Dena Diorio said. But the process was still tedious as they had to essentially rebuild the system. The county has taken steps to prevent another attack, including making its email system more secure and limiting employees' internet access. And they have more expensive plans — segmenting their data and moving to a cloud-based system — that will take about two years to implement, Diorio said. Remembering the scary early days, Diorio had advice for her counterparts in Atlanta: "All I can say is: Don't panic and stay focused." ___ Associated Press writer Matt O'Brien in Providence, Rhode Island, contributed to this report. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:11 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Snap Inc on Friday said it cut 7 percent of its global workforce in March, as disclosed by it in a regulatory filing https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564408/000156459018007282/0001564590-18-007282-index.htm. The social media company said it would incur about $10 million of cash expenditure due to severance costs to be reflected in the current quarter ending March 31. As a result of the layoffs, primarily in its engineering and sales teams, the company said it sees savings of about $25 million in 2018. The company had said it had 3,069 employees as of Dec. 31, 2017, according to its annual filing https://bit.ly/2pScNbz. Advertisement The Snapchat parent has been under pressure from investors to reduce costs after revenue fell short of analyst expectations during Snap's first year as a publicly traded company.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Earlier this month, a company memo had shown that the company would cut just over 120 engineers and reorganize its engineering team, Reuters reported. The Southern California-based company said the workforce reduction "is to align resources around our top strategic priorities and to reflect structural changes in our business." Advertisement (Reporting by Nivedita Balu in Bengaluru; Editing by Sandra Maler) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:42 A.M. E.D.T.
 Shares rose in Asia on Friday after technology and consumer-focused stocks led an overnight rally on Wall Street, marking a dramatic end to the market's most volatile quarter in more than two years. Most world markets were closed for Good Friday. KEEPING SCORE: Japan's Nikkei 225 index added 1.4 percent to 21,454.30 and the Kospi in South Korea climbed 0.4 percent to 2,445.85. The Shanghai Composite index edged 0.3 percent higher to 3,168.90. Shares rose in Taiwan and Thailand. WALL STREET'S SURGE: Banks and industrial stocks also lifted the market and recent laggards such as Facebook and Boeing rose. Even so, the solid gains didn't prevent the stock market's first quarterly loss since the third quarter of 2015. The S&P 500 rose 1.4 percent to 2,640.87. The Dow gained 1.1 percent to 24,103.11 and the Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks also picked up 1.1 percent, to 1,529.43. The Nasdaq added 1.6 percent to 7,063.44, closing the quarter with a gain of 2.3 percent. U.S. stock markets will be closed for the Good Friday holiday. TECH FACTOR: Thursday's run-up in technology stocks signaled that investors believe the sector was oversold in recent weeks, said Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. "Volatility has ramped up, inflationary pressures are more prevalent, interest rates are on the cusp of change, so that presents a higher level of uncertainty and higher investor angst," he said. Advertisement JAPAN DATA: Data released Friday showed industrial production rebounded in February, gaining 4.1 in February from the month before, after a 6.8 drop in January. "The rebound in industrial production in February wasn't strong enough to prevent a slump in output last quarter and we reiterate our forecast that GDP shrank in Q1," Marcel Thieliant of Capital Economics said in a commentary.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ENERGY: Trading stopped for the long Easter weekend. On Thursday, benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 74 cents to $70.27 per barrel in London. CURRENCIES: The dollar fell to 106.23 yen from 106.43 yen on Thursday. The euro strengthened to $1.2329 from $1.2301. Advertisement ___ AP Business Writer Alex Veiga contributed to this report. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 9:14 P.M. E.D.T.
 TOKYO —  Japan's industrial production rebounded in February from a large decline in the previous month and companies forecast further gains in coming months in a sign that factory output is back on the path toward expansion. Factory output rose 4.1 percent in February from the previous month, less than economists' median estimate of a 5.0 percent increase but recovering from a revised 6.8 percent decline in January, trade ministry data showed on Friday. The increase was led by higher output of cars, construction equipment, and semiconductors. Gains in industrial output suggest that January's weakness was temporary and the economy remains poised to extend its record growth streak due to solid exports and improving domestic demand. One risk to the outlook is that Japan's exports of steel and aluminium could weaken if it fails to win an exemption from U.S. tariffs imposed last week. Advertisement "In the first quarter industrial output is likely to be flat or decline slightly," said Daiju Aoki, regional chief investment officer at UBS Securities. Advertisement "However, we still expect exports to expand moderately, so weakness in the first quarter is likely to be temporary." Output of cars, engines, and car parts rose 10.3 percent in February, the fastest increase since April last year. Production of construction equipment and factory machinery rose 3.6 percent in February, while production of semiconductors and electronic parts rose 4.8 percent. Manufacturers surveyed by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) expected output to rise 0.9 percent in March and increase 5.2 percent in April.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Japan's government is lobbying the United States for exemptions from steel and aluminium tariffs that U.S. President Donald Trump imposed last week. Trump has temporarily excluded six countries and the European Union from the tariffs, but it is uncertain whether Japan will receive the same treatment. Separate data released Friday showed labour demand eased slightly and the jobless rate edged higher in February, but the labour market is expected to remain tight due to a shortage of workers. The jobs-to-applicants ratio fell to 1.58 from 1.59 in January, which is the highest in 44 years. The jobless rate rose to 2.5 percent in February from 2.4 percent in the previous month. Advertisement Japan's economy has grown for eight straight quarters, its longest continuous expansion since the 1980s bubble economy, moving Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's revival plan a step closer to vanquishing decades of stagnation. Consumer spending, exports, and capital expenditure have helped drive growth. Economists say consumer spending could lose some momentum this year but they expect exports to remain strong thanks to sustained global demand. (Reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Kim Coghill) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 

      By ALICIA PARLAPIANO

UPDATED APRIL 3, 2018
 
 The Trump administration last week announced that it would add a citizenship question to the decennial census in 2020, citing the need for more granular data for determining Voting Rights Act violations. Critics say that adding the question could cause some immigrants — particularly those who are not citizens — not to respond, resulting in an undercount. There is no reliable data to estimate how many people would opt out of the census, but a panel of experts from inside the United States Census Bureau still expressed opposition to the move, in part because of concerns about accuracy. “Just because there is not clear evidence that adding the question would harm the census accuracy, this is not evidence that it will not,” they wrote in a memo. Noncitizen share of population Wash. 2% 6 8 12 14 Me. Mont. N.D. Minn. Vt. Ore. N.H. Idaho Wis. S.D. N.Y. Mass. Mich. Wyo. R.I. Conn. Iowa Pa. Neb. N.J. Nev. Ohio Md. Del. Ill. Ind. Utah W.Va. Colo. Calif. Va. Kan. Mo. Ky. N.C. Tenn. Okla. Ariz. N.M. Ark. S.C. Ala. Ga. Miss. La. Tex. Fla. Alaska Hawaii Noncitizen share of population 2% 6 8 12 14 WA ME MT ND VT MN OR NH ID NY WI MA SD MI RI WY CT PA IA NE NJ NV MD OH IL IN DE UT WV CO VA CA KS MO KY DC NC TN OK AZ NM AR SC AL GA MS LA TX AK FL HI About 56 percent of the nation’s 44 million immigrants are not United States citizens, and an estimated 45 percent of noncitizens are undocumented. Among those who are not citizens, undocumented immigrants have the lowest rates of participation in census surveys in general, experts say. Accurate census counts are critical for many functions, including the disbursement of billions in federal and state dollars and the distribution of congressional seats and representation in state and local governments. A group of 17 state attorneys general and seven cities filed a lawsuit Tuesday to block the change. A recent Census Bureau report found that 132 programs used decennial census or related data to distribute more than $675 billion to states in 2015. Most of the money was related to health care, education and assistance for the poor. Top federal assistance programs distributed using census data   Medicaid and other medical assistance $312 billion Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) $71 Medicare Part B physician payments $70 Highway planning and construction $38 Pell grant program for students $30 Federal school lunch program $19 Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) $17 Section 8 housing vouchers $16 Title 1 grants to local school districts $14 Grants to states for services for students with special needs $11 Head Start early childhood program $9 Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) $6 Some academics have created hypothetical scenarios to show how a reduction in participation could affect the distribution of congressional seats among states, which are determined by total residents, not just citizens. States That Could Lose Seats Total seat change by percentage of Hispanic noncitizens who do not respond PROJECTED SEATS IN 2020 10% 100% Florida 29 –1 California 53 –1 –2 –3 Texas 39 –1 –2 Arizona 10 –1 States That Could Gain Seats Total seat change by percentage of Hispanic noncitizens who do not respond PROJECTED SEATS IN 2020 10% 100% Montana 1 +1 Minnesota +1 7 Alabama 6 +1 Ohio 15 +1 West Virginia 2 +1 Virginia 11 +1 Michigan 13 +1 States That Could Lose Seats Projected seats in 2020 Total seat change by percentage of Hispanic noncitizens who do not respond 10 100 Fla. 29 –1 Calif. 53 –1 –2 –3 Texas 39 –1 –2 Ariz. 10 –1 States That Could Gain Seats Projected seats in 2020 Total seat change by percentage of Hispanic noncitizens who do not respond 10 100 Mont. 1 +1 Minn. 7 +1 Ala. 6 +1 Ohio 15 +1 W.Va. 2 +1 Va. 11 +1 Mich. 13 +1 According to Maxwell Palmer, an assistant professor of political science at Boston University, if 10 percent of Hispanic noncitizens opted out, Florida could lose one congressional seat, and Montana could gain one. In an extreme case, in which 100 percent of Hispanic noncitizens did not participate, a total of seven congressional seats could be reshuffled, with three lost by California and two by Texas, Dr. Palmer said. Andrew A. Beveridge, a Queens College sociologist, warned against overstating the potential effects of the citizenship question. He said that the maximum share of noncitizens who do not respond would be 20 percent, which is not enough to trigger a huge change. “This, as the analysis shows, would only move a couple of seats,” said Dr. Beveridge, who is also president of Social Explorer, a research site that analyzes census data. Advertisement
Advertisement 
Vocations  As told to                     
PATRICIA R. OLSEN

MARCH 30, 2018
 Christina Tan, 48, is the state epidemiologist at the New Jersey Department of Health in Trenton. What is your role in protecting people’s health? The main function is to track and monitor both common and unusual diseases in the state, and characterize their distribution. We provide our data to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention so they can compile national pictures of disease trends and problems, whether from infectious diseases or cancer. We also work to prevent recurrences. What’s your background? I’m a doctor of internal medicine and also completed a fellowship related to my current position. During medical school at what is now the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, I took an elective in which I shadowed the C.D.C.’s Epidemic Intelligence Service officers in Atlanta, which was my introduction to this field. Advertisement After my residency, I applied for the fellowship with the Epidemic Intelligence Service and was assigned to the New Jersey Department of Health from 2000 to 2002. It was an exciting time, because the state was ground zero for the anthrax attacks that followed Sept. 11. Advertisement Had you originally thought you’d work in a hospital or private practice? Yes. My father was a gastroenterologist, so between his practice and my medical training, I was only familiar with physicians who worked in clinical practice, did research or trained other physicians. But during my residency at what is now NYU Langone Health, I started to have doubts. The high volume of patients was exhausting, and the fellowship offered an opportunity to think about whether being a clinician was the right fit. The officers I’d shadowed during medical school went out into the field to the site of an outbreak, such as a cruise ship, and did what we called shoe leather epidemiology, pounding the pavement. What else attracted you to this role? My predecessor was my supervisor during my fellowship. One minute he was serving as a health expert, and the next he was communicating health risks. Following that, he was responding to a public health emergency or figuring out how to get resources for programs. He had to work with a variety of groups and make decisions really quickly, often with little information. It was a cool thing to watch and confirmed my interest in this area. What lessons are there from flu season?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Fortunately, the season has peaked, but we’re still seeing widespread flu activity that will most likely last through May. The flu is unpredictable, which is why public health departments monitor it all year round. For example, we saw the emergence of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic in the late spring, after seasonal flu ended that year. We’ve learned that we need to ensure that public health and health care partners maintain vigilance in monitoring for flu and other emerging infections. We also need to maintain flexibility in our preparedness and response plans so we can adapt what we do, based on what the disease trends tell us. Advertisement Do you get out in the field these days? Yes, but my team mainly plugs away at spreadsheets, looking at data. Most outbreak investigations are not glamorous or hyper-dramatic, like in the movie Contagion. I’m also the assistant commissioner of the state Epidemiology, Environmental and Occupational Health division. We often work with local health departments and health care facilities that are in the field interviewing patients and collecting specimens, including blood, sputum and stool, for lab testing, to confirm the presence of certain microorganisms. Occasionally — particularly with some of the rarer diseases like imported Lassa fever — we’ll work in the field to further monitor hospital staff members that have been exposed, or to interview additional patients. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by David Leonhardt By David Leonhardt and Ian Prasad Philbrick This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. There’s not enough deep but respectful disagreement in political debate today. The recent discussion between Jamie Weinstein and Ta-Nehisi Coates is a welcome exception. Weinstein hosts a podcast for National Review Online. Coates, of course, is the best-selling author and Atlantic writer. In their 70-plus-minute conversation, they discuss racism, the idea of America and Coates’s career. Among the highlights: — Weinstein argues that wealthy black celebrities and black police officers, among other examples, undercut the notion of systemic racism, and Coates has an effective response. — Coates talks about how the #MeToo movement gave him empathy toward white people who feel guilty about racism. — Coates explains why Barack Obama’s paid speeches to Wall Street were a mistake. — Coates (shortly after the one-hour mark) offers a wonderfully succinct description of why so many journalists like their jobs. — An hour and 13 minutes in, Coates praises Kevin Williamson, then of National Review, as one of his favorite conservative writers — one with whom he often disagrees. After the podcast aired, Williamson was hired by The Atlantic, where Coates works, to some controversy. (In The Times, our colleague Michelle Goldberg makes the case against hiring Williamson.) If you enjoy the podcast — and Weinstein’s graciousness and sincerity, as Coates puts it — Weinstein has also interviewed The Times’s David Brooks. E.P.A. shenanigans. This week, the Environmental Protection Agency released scientifically inaccurate talking points on climate change. It’s preparing to roll back green vehicle-emissions rules. And its administrator, Scott Pruitt, recently declared that the agency would no longer use scientific studies that rely on private data to develop environmental policies. In truth, the former E.P.A. officials Gina McCarthy and Janet McCabe argue in The Times, scientists often keep sensitive data that’s critical to their research confidential. Billed by Pruitt as a measure to increase transparency, the move is actually “his latest effort to cripple the agency,” they write. Pruitt’s tenure has also been clouded by scandal, including lavish domestic air travel at taxpayers’ expense. Pruitt’s recent claim that he’s spent less on travel than Obama E.P.A. officials did “is, at best, laughably inadequate. At worst, it’s shockingly dishonest,” explains The New Republic’s Emily Atkin, who did the math. Unable to justify the expenses, she writes, Pruitt and his staff have “tried to distract with falsehoods.” Speaking of falsehoods … This week brought more personal attacks, doctored images and right-wing misinformation aimed at undermining the student activists from Parkland, Fla. “What we’re seeing here is a spreading stain, in which conspiracy mongering” is “peddled to a receptive audience softened up for decades by Fox News,” argues The Washington Post’s Margaret Sullivan. You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion). Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By CHRISTINE HAUSERMARCH 30, 2018
 A young black transgender woman was shot dead in a Louisiana motel this week, becoming at least the seventh transgender woman known to have been killed in the United States this year, rights advocates said. The woman, Amia Tyrae, 28, was killed Monday at about 1:15 a.m. at a motel on Airline Highway, according to the Baton Rouge Police Department. Dr. William Clark, the East Baton Rouge Parish coroner, ruled Ms. Tyrae’s death a homicide, caused by a gunshot wound to the chest. The Police Department said Friday night that Dedrick Butler, 22, of Denham Springs, La., had been arrested in the killing. He was charged with second-degree murder, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, and possession of a firearm with an obliterated serial number. 
            .@HRC mourns the loss Amia Tyrae Berryman, a transgender woman of color fatally shot in Louisiana. Her death is now the 7th known reported homicide of a trans woman in 2018. #SayHerName https://t.co/yMCccBFnr9  Between 25 to 28 transgender people were reported killed in the United States last year, the highest number in at least a decade, according to a report by the Human Rights Campaign and the Trans People of Color Coalition. The violence disproportionately affects transgender women of color. Advertisement The killing of Ms. Tyrae came less than a month after the shooting death of another transgender woman, Phylicia Mitchell, 46, outside her apartment in Cleveland on Feb. 23. Transgender women were also killed in New Mexico, Florida, New York, Massachusetts and California this year, according to data compiled by Glaad. Advertisement Ms. Tyrae worked at a home health care company, according to her Facebook page. Relatives declined to comment on Ms. Tyrae’s death. Friends and family said on Facebook that a funeral service would be held in Baton Rouge on Saturday. Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. NeVaa White, a friend, told Mic that Ms. Tyrae had been out since at least 2009, and had a close community of friends. “She made family with her peers in the L.G.B.T. community of Baton Rouge,” Ms. White said, adding that Ms. Tyrae didn’t have an easy life, and that she “was taken away in the very manner she feared.” Statistics on homicides of transgender people are difficult to compile and are not officially available because the federal government does not collect data based on gender identity. In addition, transgender homicide victims are often identified by the police using the names and genders they were assigned at birth, a practice known as misgendering. Advocates emphasize that their tallies just include the victims they know about. “It is impossible to have a complete and accurate number,” MJ Okma, an associate director at Glaad, said. Transgender people frequently face economic hardships, discrimination in housing and hiring, and high rates of homelessness, Mr. Okma said, all factors that can contribute to systematic violence. “That becomes the greater context,” he said. In 2016 in Louisiana, Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, issued an executive order that protected L.G.B.T. employees and contractors from discrimination, the first time that the state had explicitly recognized the equal rights of transgender people, according to the American Civil Liberties Union. But transgender people have continued to be targeted in the state. Three transgender women were murdered there in an eight-day period in February 2017. “Violence against trans people, mostly trans women of color and often resulting in death, continues to plague our communities,” the group Louisiana Trans Advocates said at the time. Advertisement “We must also recognize that the shameful content and tone of the national discourse on trans issues contribute to stigmatization and dehumanization that lower the barriers to this kind of violence,” the organization said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 11:05 A.M. E.D.T.
 HOUSTON —  A recent drought in oil company mergers and acquisitions could be coming to an end over a new Texas range war: U.S. shale producers are building miles-long horizontal wells that are running into their rivals' land holdings. This week, U.S. shale producer Concho Resources Inc said longer horizontal wells are among the factors spurring its $8 billion deal for rival RSP Permian Inc, with well spacing and sharing infrastructure needs also playing roles. RSP Permian controlled the land adjacent to its own in many cases. The average length of U.S. shale wells has grown by roughly 1,500 feet, or 25 percent, in the past three years to 7,213 feet, according to RS Energy Group, an energy investment data provider. Producers are drilling longer shale wells - some exceed three miles - to extract more crude from each well. Oil company M&A fell in the wake of the 2014 oil price crash and more producers refocused on their best holdings. The value of U.S. oil producer deals last year was less than half the $137.7 billion in 2013, according to data provider PLS Inc. That could be changing in West Texas's Permian, the largest U.S. oilfield, where checkerboard-like leases dating to land grants made to railroads in the 19th century are hemming in producers. Advertisement "Consolidating acreage is going to be extremely meaningful," said Brook Papau, managing director of RS Energy. "We'll see more deals." Advertisement Smaller companies with prime acreage, especially on the Permian's western edge, could be buyout candidates, including Abraxas Petroleum, Lilis Energy and Jagged Peak Energy, industry analysts have told Reuters. Shared transport systems, such as oil and gas gathering and water disposal, also are driving the need for scale and property acquisitions in addition to horizontal wells, called laterals, Concho Chief Executive Tim Leach said this week.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Long laterals and (avoiding) the parent-child relationship" where close well spacing reduces output, drove the deal, said Leach. "Large, contiguous blocks of acreage are strategic," he told investors. After dropping 8.7 percent on the steep purchase price, Concho shares on Thursday retraced much of the fall, rising 5 percent to $150.33. "The investment community has consistently espoused the merits of consolidation within a highly fragmented business," said Simmons & Co analyst David Kistler in a note to clients praising the Concho-RSP deal. Still, M&A is not the only way to get more adjacent land. Chevron Corp last year swapped or sold more than 60,000 acres in the Permian Basin. The deals, Chevron CEO Mike Wirth said in a February earnings call, "create value by consolidating land positions, allowing longer laterals and other infrastructure efficiencies." (Reporting by Ernest Scheyder; Editing by Andrea Ricci) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Letters To the Editor: Re “Narrower Scope for E.P.A. Rules” (front page, March 27): The discrediting of science is a shocking new piece of American life. The decision by the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Scott Pruitt, to limit use of scientific research when determining agency regulations, unless the raw data can be made public, is simply wrong. America has led the way in scientific research, and we have depended on that information for everything from medical breakthroughs to space travel. To put a lid on use of important research and to question its validity is dangerous. Proper scientific research as carried out by well-trained scientists is steeped in validity. While warnings about our changing climate abound and threats to our food safety surface, nonscientists are leading a charge to undermine research, and, in turn, much-needed regulation. The E.P.A. is setting the table for a dangerous new world. We need to say “no”! SALLY COURTRIGHT, ALBANY To the Editor: The rhetoric that Scott Pruitt uses makes it seem as though he is doing the American people a favor by providing them the “transparency” they deserve. But Mr. Pruitt is the one not providing the American people transparency. E.P.A. employees are required to have an escort to Mr. Pruitt’s office, where he sometimes doesn’t even allow them to take notes during meetings. He spent $3,000 for his office to be swept of hidden devices and installed a soundproof booth for another $25,000. Mr. Pruitt should be held accountable when asking scientific agencies to spend copious amounts of money so they can share raw data when he is clearly living in a constant state of secrecy. If he is demanding scientists to be transparent for the American people’s sake, shouldn’t he be following his own advice? OLIVIA MACIEIK, WASHINGTON To the Editor: While Washington’s attention is aimed at Russian collusion and Stormy Daniels distractions, “New Litmus Test for Trump’s Court Picks: Taming the Bureaucracy” (front page, March 28) shines a light on the real news. As an environmental attorney, when I hear shrinking “the administrative state,” it means turning our back on nearly 50 years of human health protections. For a year, the Trump administration has been laser-focused on repealing, retracting and rolling back science-based safeguards. Yet, as your article reveals, the pledged “deconstruction of the administrative state” under Mr. Trump is more than just a four-year pausing of Obama-era regulations. The plan is long term — nominating young and extreme judges to lifetime appointments, nominees who hold a myopic goal of stopping the executive agencies charged with protecting us. Fair judges are important to the sustainability of our democracy, but with more than 170 vacancies, sustainability is in question. It is a critical time for the environment, agency experts who protect it and our federal courts. Each must be protected and not sacrificed for pure politics. TRENT A. DOUGHERTYCOLUMBUS, OHIO Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:44 A.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  HSBC Holdings Plc has agreed to pay $100 million (£71.3 million) to end private U.S. litigation accusing it of conspiring to manipulate the Libor benchmark interest rate, becoming the fourth major bank to settle. The preliminary accord with "over-the-counter" investors that transacted directly with banks on a panel to determine Libor, or the London Interbank Offered Rate, was disclosed in filings on Thursday with the U.S. District Court in Manhattan. Court approval is required. Settlements with the OTC investors total $590 million so far, and include $120 million with Barclays Plc, $130 million with Citigroup Inc and $240 million with Deutsche Bank AG. HSBC denied wrongdoing, but settled to avoid the risks, costs and distraction of litigation, court papers show. Advertisement A spokesman was not immediately available to comment. Banks use Libor to set rates on hundreds of trillions of dollars of credit card, mortgage, student loan and other transactions, and determine costs of borrowing from each other.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Investors including the city of Baltimore and Yale University in Connecticut had accused 16 banks of conspiring to manipulate Libor. The private litigation began in 2011. Advertisement Banks have paid roughly $9 billion to settle Libor-rigging probes worldwide. Last July, the head of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority said that regulator will phase out Libor by the end of 2021, citing a lack of data to underpin it. The case is In re: Libor-Based Financial Instruments Antitrust Litigation, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 11-md-02262. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; editing by Diane Craft) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 8:08 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  HSBC Holdings Plc has agreed to pay $100 million to end private U.S. litigation accusing it of conspiring to manipulate the Libor benchmark interest rate, becoming the fourth major bank to settle. The preliminary accord with "over-the-counter" investors that transacted directly with banks on a panel to determine Libor, or the London Interbank Offered Rate, was disclosed in filings on Thursday with the U.S. District Court in Manhattan. Court approval is required. Settlements with the OTC investors total $590 million so far, and include $120 million with Barclays Plc, $130 million with Citigroup Inc and $240 million with Deutsche Bank AG. HSBC denied wrongdoing, but settled to avoid the risks, costs and distraction of litigation, court papers show. Advertisement A spokesman was not immediately available to comment. Banks use Libor to set rates on hundreds of trillions of dollars of credit card, mortgage, student loan and other transactions, and determine costs of borrowing from each other.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Investors including the city of Baltimore and Yale University in Connecticut had accused 16 banks of conspiring to manipulate Libor. The private litigation began in 2011. Advertisement Banks have paid roughly $9 billion to settle Libor-rigging probes worldwide. Last July, the head of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority said that regulator will phase out Libor by the end of 2021, citing a lack of data to underpin it. The case is In re: Libor-Based Financial Instruments Antitrust Litigation, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 11-md-02262. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; editing by Diane Craft) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 12:30 P.M. E.D.T.
 VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. —  The Latest on the launch of 10 satellites for Iridium Communications (all times local): 9:25 a.m. A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket has successfully launched 10 new satellites for Iridium Communications. The rocket blasted off from Vandenberg Air Force Base, California, at 7:23 a.m. Friday and began deploying the satellites about an hour later. Iridium says all of the satellites were successfully released into low Earth orbit and are communicating with its network operations center. The McLean, Virginia, company now has 50 next-generation satellites in orbit as it replaces its entire global fleet. Final launches are expected to be completed this year. Advertisement It was the second flight for the Falcon 9's first stage, which was first used in a previous Iridium launch. This time it performed a simulated landing over the ocean but was not recovered for reuse. Advertisement ___ 7:23 a.m. A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying 10 satellites for Iridium Communications has blasted off from Vandenberg Air Force Base, California.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The rocket lifted off at 7:13 a.m. Friday and arced over the Pacific west of Los Angeles. The satellites are expected to be deployed into low Earth orbit about an hour after liftoff. The Falcon 9's first stage was previously launched on an Iridium mission last October and was recovered. The payload is the fifth set of 10 new satellites launched for Iridium, which is replacing its entire global satellite network. The $3 billion project is scheduled for completion this year, with a total of 75 new satellites in orbit. Iridium, based in McLean, Virginia, provides mobile voice and data communications. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 12:33 A.M. E.D.T.
 BEIJING —  Huawei Technology Ltd., the Chinese maker of smartphones and telecom equipment, said Friday its profit rose 28.1 percent in 2017, boosted by strong enterprise and consumer sales. Huawei said it earned 47.5 billion yuan ($7.6 billion) for the year, a marked improvement over the previous year, when profit rose just 0.4 percent due to higher spending on research and marketing. Total revenue rose 15.7 percent over 2016 to 603.6 billion yuan ($96.2 billion). The company headquartered in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen is the No. 3 global seller of smartphones behind Samsung Electronics Ltd. and Apple Inc. It competes with Sweden's LM Ericsson for the status of biggest maker of network equipment used by phone and internet companies. Huawei, founded in 1987, is owned by its employees, with no publicly traded shares, but reports financial results in an effort to allay security concerns in the United States, Europe and Australia. Advertisement The company had planned to announce its first distribution agreement with a U.S. carrier in January but that was canceled without explanation. News reports said the carrier was AT&T Inc. and the company backed out due to pressure from U.S. authorities.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Huawei and Honor smartphone brands shipped 153 million handsets last year for total sales of 237.2 billion yuan ($37.8 billion), a 39.1 percent increase, the company said. Sales of cloud, data center and other enterprise products and services rose 35.1 percent to 54.9 billion yuan ($8.7 billion). Advertisement Revenue for Huawei's carrier business rose a more modest 2.5 percent to 297.8 billion yuan ($47.5 billion). Research and development spending increased 17.5 percent over 2016 to 89.7 billion yuan ($14.3 billion). Huawei reports the highest R&D spending of any Chinese company. ___ Huawei Technology Ltd.: http://www.huawei.com We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
PAID FOR AND POSTED BY CTCA FOUNDATION MEDICINE While biomarker-driven drugs alone won't treat all cancers, precision cancer treatments  help oncologists fight cancer more strategically. Using genomic testing, doctors are better able to determine what mutations are driving the cancer and prescribe drugs that target specific characteristics in patients’ tumor cells.  “In the last five to 10 years, genomic testing has changed our understanding of how tumors behave on a molecular level,” explains Dr. Justin Chura, director of gynecologic oncology at Cancer Treatment Centers of America in Philadelphia. “That is revolutionary for our patients.”
 Amid the rapid growth of genomic testing, researchers are seeing the potential for precision cancer treatment to change the landscape for the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of cancer. “Most advanced cancers have already been treated with a traditional regimen, like chemotherapy, which tends to work in maybe 10 to 40 percent of cases,” explains Dr. Vincent A. Miller, chief medical officer at Foundation Medicine. "Treatments informed by genomic testing may increase the probability of improved short- and long-term survival, with less toxicity to the patient." Cancer Treatment Centers of America offers clinically qualified patients access to this cutting-edge approach, thanks in part to a relationship with Foundation Medicine, a molecular information company that performs genomic testing at its labs in Massachusetts, North Carolina and Germany. Foundation Medicine has developed a portfolio of genomic tests designed to accurately analyze a broad range of genes known to drive cancer growth. Using a single tissue or blood sample, these tests may help oncologists determine which targeted therapies, immunotherapies or clinical trials may be appropriate for their patients. Since the data on genomic mutations and corresponding therapies grows and evolves so quickly, it’s vital to stay up-to-date on the latest changes. That’s why organizations like Cancer Treatment Centers of America and Foundation Medicine do more than collaborate on the identification of targeted treatment options. They also work together to advance the field of oncology by hosting multidisciplinary tumor boards where experts on all sides can analyze new findings. 
“These tumor boards combine the genomicists and clinical oversight from Foundation Medicine with the oncologic and pathologic expertise from CTCA to really interpret the data,” says Dr. Miller.
 
Foundation Medicine also contributes to this growing field by compiling the de-identified genomic profiles of tumors into a searchable database. This database serves as a resource for the medical, scientific and pharmaceutical communities. It helps speed the discovery of additional driver mutations and biomarkers, which may lead to the development of new treatments that target these pathways and biomarkers, and the initiation of evidence-based clinical trials. The pipeline for these new therapies is substantial. Currently, there are 26 immuno-oncology therapies approved around the world, but there are 2,004 in various stages of clinical or preclinical development, according to a paper in the December 2017 issue of Annals of Oncology. “We are standing on the slope of the graph where the information generated is doubling and tripling in a really short amount of time,” says Julia Elvin, an anatomic pathologist and senior associate medical director at Foundation Medicine. “This is an incredibly exciting time in oncology care.”
 The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:36 P.M. E.D.T.
 VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. —  A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket successfully launched 10 next-generation satellites Friday for Iridium Communications from California. The rocket, including a previously used first stage, lifted off from Vandenberg Air Force at 7:13 a.m. PDT and arced southward over the Pacific Ocean west of Los Angeles. About an hour later, the rocket's second stage released the satellites into low Earth orbit, circling from pole to pole. "All 10 new satellites have successfully communicated with the Iridium Satellite Network Operations Center and are preparing to begin testing," the McLean, Virginia, company said in a statement. Advertisement The payload was the fifth set of 10 new orbiters launched for the company, which is replacing its entire space-based mobile voice and data network with a satellite constellation dubbed Iridium NEXT. Advertisement The $3 billion project is scheduled for completion this year, with a total of 75 new satellites in orbit. Nine will be on-orbit spares and an additional six will remain on the ground until needed. Iridium said it now has a million active subscribers. The satellites also carry equipment for Aireon LLC's air traffic surveillance system designed to provide airlines with frequent updates of aircraft positions, speeds and altitudes, even over remote oceanic and polar areas.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Falcon 9's first stage previously flew on an October 2017 Iridium mission and safely landed on a so-called drone ship at sea. This time there was no attempt to recover the first stage but it was to perform a simulated landing over the ocean, said Michael Hammersley, a SpaceX materials engineer serving as launch spokesman. Historically, expended rocket segments have been allowed to fall into oceans, but SpaceX founder Elon Musk has made reusability a key goal in order to drive down launch costs. SpaceX is also experimenting with recovering fairings, the aerodynamic covering that protects satellites during the first few minutes of a launch and then is shed in two halves that fall back to Earth. SpaceX has a high-speed ship with an enormous net structure designed to catch half of a fairing as it descends under a parafoil. Musk tweeted that a problem caused the parafoil to twist during Friday's attempt and the fairing impacted the water at high speed. He said helicopter drop tests would be conducted to solve the problem. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By SHEERA FRENKEL and NELLIE BOWLESMARCH 30, 2018
 SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook employees were in an uproar on Friday over a leaked 2016 memo from a top executive defending the social network’s growth at any cost — even if it caused deaths from a terrorist attack that was organized on the platform. In the memo, Andrew Bosworth, a Facebook vice president, wrote, “Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people. The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de facto* good.” Mr. Bosworth and Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, have since disavowed the memo, which was published on Thursday by BuzzFeed News. But the fallout at the Silicon Valley company has been wide. According to two Facebook employees, workers have been calling on internal message boards for a hunt to find those who leak to the media. Some have questioned whether Facebook has been transparent enough with its users and with journalists, said the employees, who asked not to be identified for fear of retaliation. Many are also concerned over what might leak next and are deleting old comments or messages that might come across as controversial or newsworthy, they said. The brouhaha follows a period of intense scrutiny for Facebook and questions over what its responsibilities are to its more than 2.2 billion users. The company has been grappling this month with revelations that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested data from 50 million of the social network’s users. Mr. Zuckerberg has since been on an apology tour over data privacy and is expected to testify before lawmakers in Washington. Advertisement Facebook did not respond to a request for comment over employees’ reaction to the leaked memo. In the aftermath, some Facebook executives have taken to Twitter for a public charm offensive, sending pithy phrases and emoticons to reporters who cover the company. Adam Mosseri, Facebook’s head of news feed, in recent days wrote unprompted to a BuzzFeed editor and to its chief executive reminiscing and telling a story about his mother. He also wrote to a reporter from the Verge tech site about the songs played at his wedding reception. Advertisement In some of his tweets, Mr. Mosseri also defended Facebook. When writers from Vox and BuzzFeed tweeted that they noticed that stories critical of Facebook were receiving surprisingly low levels of traffic on Facebook, Mr. Mosseri jumped in. “We 100% do not take any action on stories for being critical of us,” he tweeted. 
            We 100% do not take any action on stories for being critical of us.         Mr. Bosworth, the author of the 2016 memo, also took to Twitter. Late Thursday, he said he did not agree with what he wrote in the memo “and I didn’t agree with it even when I wrote it.” He added that “the purpose of this post, like many others I have written internally, was to bring to the surface issues I felt deserved more discussion with the broader company.” The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After BuzzFeed published the memo, Mr. Bosworth deleted it from an internal message board where it had originally been posted. In a statement to BuzzFeed, Mr. Zuckerberg praised Mr. Bosworth as “a talented leader who says many provocative things” and said that he and most people at Facebook did not agree with the memo and that the company had realized that it could not just be about connecting people. Facebook employees said on Friday that discussions were raging across the company regarding the merits of the post. Some called for executives to aggressively pursue action against those leaking to the media, said two Facebook employees, as well as for the company to do more to screen for potential whistle-blowers during the hiring process. At least one former Facebook employee, Alec Muffett, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Bosworth’s memo was responsible for his decision to leave the company. “Between overwork and leadership direction evidenced thusly, I could never stay,” wrote Mr. Muffett, who formerly worked as a Facebook engineer. 
            Backplot: my "goodbye" posting to Facebook was in significant part in response to this work by @boztank, and subsequently garnered considerable support from Facebook's under-represented Engineering community, who genuinely do care about user privacy: https://t.co/GaoHLYoh17  “There are some amazing engineers working at Facebook, folks who care deeply about user privacy, security, and how people will use the code that they write,” Mr. Muffett said later in a message. “Alas this episode may not help” to achieve more transparent internal product discussion, he said. Follow Sheera Frenkel and Nellie Bowles on Twitter: @sheeraf and @NellieBowles. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Memo on ‘Ugly Truth’  Angers Facebook Staff.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 7:32 A.M. E.D.T.
 BEIJING —  Businesses and consumers in China are bracing themselves ahead of a March 31 ban on non-state sanctioned virtual private networks (VPNs), saying regulators have not provided clarity on how the ban will be implemented. VPNs, which can bypass China's Great Firewall, the world's most extensive effort to try to control cyberspace, allow companies and individuals to secure access to information stored outside the country and gain access to websites blocked in China, including news sites, social media and search engines. New regulations introduced last year ban companies and consumers from using VPNs that are not government approved, starting on Sunday, but it is still not clear how strictly the rules will be implemented. Businesses say they have not received directives from authorities about the ban and say the lack of transparency around the rules is cause for concern. Advertisement "We're not expecting a sudden impact, but at the same time there is no clarity, it's not helpful" said a Beijing-based executive at a U.S. tech firm who declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the subject. Advertisement "We have products that have been removed or reviewed in the past under similar laws ... we are fairly confident that there will be a discussion before there are any rash moves," the executive said. The Cyberspace Administration of China and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, which together drafted the new rules, did not respond immediately to faxed requests for comment. The ruling Communist Party has tightened controls on society since President Xi Jinping assumed power, from online censorship to a crackdown on activists and non-governmental organizations.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Officials say China has a sovereign right to govern the internet as it sees fit, and its expansive national security and cyber security regulations are needed to address threats such as hacking and terrorism. Foreign diplomats say officials have rebuffed efforts to discuss the cyber rules, and they warn that the restrictions could harm China's image, undermine its competitiveness and put a dent in international cooperation. [nL4N1MR3IY] In January, Lester Ross, head of a policy committee at the American Chamber of Commerce in China, told reporters the VPN rules could put a burden on small businesses forced to pay for expensive international private leased circuits (IPLC) to get beyond the Great Firewall.    "For larger companies, in many instances they already have these and it's a cost of business they can absorb. But for smaller companies, it's a real problem," he said. "It's all part and parcel of the party's emphasis on data control and information control. This is likely to be an even bigger concern as we go forward." (Reporting by Cate Cadell and Michael Martina; Editing by Robert Birsel) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Article of the Day  By                     
 CAROLINE CROSSON GILPIN
 
MARCH 30, 2018
 Before reading the article:  Watch the short Boston Red Sox video below, showing virtual reality batting booths at Fenway Park that feature distance information for the batter. Have you ever used digital technology to improve your sports performance or to give you immediate feedback? If so, for what sport, and what type of technology was used? Did it help you improve? How has technology changed a sport you love, and do you like the changes? Now, read the article, “Right Now, Baseball Loves the Long Ball. But for How Long?,” and answer the following questions:  1. What kinds of feedback are baseball athletes getting in training now, according to the article? 2. What are the statistics on the unprecedented levels of home runs and strikeouts last season? Advertisement 3. What is the reason the article gives for why baseball has turned into a “test of power at the plate and on the mound”? 4. What happened in the early 2000s that caused power hitters to move up to first or second in the batting order, and for bunts and stolen bases to mostly fall out of favor? 5. What details does the article give about the changes being made to flip outfielders within games, based on where the ball is most likely to be hit? 6. How have differences in the ball itself changed the game, according to the article? 7. What results come from many high-strikeout, high-power hitters in the game, according to the article, and why? Finally, tell us more about what you think: The article ends: But with so much money at stake, and so much technology available to a generation that craves it, the players will adapt their game to fit the ever-shifting needs of the industry. In the Astros’ farm system, some hitters use sensors on their bat handles to track everything from bat speed to body rotation. They play on fields with cameras mounted everywhere, measuring every movement. Who knows what will come from it all? What do you think will come from all the technological advances in baseball, and why do you think so? What predictions can you make about how other sports might evolve with technology? How might those games change? Advertisement If you had your wish, what would change and what would remain the same in a sport you love, and why? For related coverage, see “Can New Technology Bring Baseball’s Data Revolution to Fielding?” and “Is Baseball Too Slow? Here’s How Readers Would Fix the Game, or Not.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By AUSTIN RAMZYMARCH 30, 2018
 HONG KONG — Twenty migrant workers from Myanmar were killed when their bus caught fire in northwestern Thailand early Friday, the police said. The workers were traveling to a factory district near Bangkok when their chartered bus was engulfed in flames around 1:30 a.m. in Tak Province. The cause of the fire was not yet known, said Col. Krissana Pattanacharoen, a Royal Thai Police spokesman. The authorities were planning to interview the driver, who survived the fire. The bus was carrying 47 people, and 27 escaped, Colonel Krissana said. But 20 others were killed in the fire, which incinerated the double-decker bus and left it a charred shell on the roadside. “We are trying to identify the bodies and also trying to contact the Myanmar Consulate in order to identify the bodies,” Colonel Krissana said. “They are Buddhists, so we’ve got to send them back to their hometown for religious ceremonies there.” Advertisement Kittasak Boonchan, an administrator of a rescue group in Tak Province, said he arrived at the scene around 2:30 a.m., about 20 minutes after the first rescue team. Advertisement The burning bus was about 15 miles from the rescue team’s base, he said, delaying their response. “When we got there, the flames were so strong,” Mr. Kittasak said. “People who couldn’t get out of the bus were writhing in pain in the flames.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Most of the survivors had only minor injuries, but one person was badly burned and cut by a mirror, he said. Before Thailand’s military government enacted a tough law on migrant workers last June, the country had as many as three million unregistered migrant workers, many from Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam. The new rules, which carried prison terms of up to five years for working without legal documents, led tens of thousands of workers to return home. The workers who were killed Friday had passed the lengthy new registration process to work in the country, Thai news outlets reported. Thailand’s roads are notoriously dangerous. It had the world’s highest rate of road traffic deaths, according to World Health Organization data from 2013, and in 2015 it was found to have the second highest road fatality rate behind Libya. Last week at least 18 people were killed when a tour bus swerved across the median and slid off a road in Nakhon Ratchasima Province, in northeast Thailand. Ryn Jirenuwat contributed reporting from Bangkok. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 12:17 A.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Watford midfielder Abdoulaye Doucoure has been linked with a move to a top-six club at the end of the season but manager Javi Gracia says the Frenchman is already playing at a big club and can fulfil his European ambitions at Vicarage Road. Doucoure has made 30 Premier League appearances and scored seven goals in the current campaign, and British media have credited Manchester United, Tottenham Hotspur, Liverpool and Arsenal with an interest in the player, who said earlier this season it would be a dream to play in Champions League. "Doucoure is playing for a very big team, playing in the Premier League and in the future I would like him to play with Watford in Europe," Gracia told reporters. "Maybe in the future he can play with other big clubs who play in the Champions League." Gracia said he was pleased with Doucoure's attitude in the final stretch of the season despite the uncertainty surrounding his future. Advertisement "Doucoure knows he is important, not for me, but for the club and his team mates," the manager added.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I am only focused on the next seven games and I am sure Doucoure will help us with his best attitude until the end of the season. Then we will see what happens, but I would like for him to stay with us for a long time." Watford sit 11th in the league ahead of Saturday's game against Bournemouth, who are a place above them on goal difference. Advertisement (Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru; Editing by Peter Rutherford) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 12:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 Walmart may be looking to dive deeper into the rapidly evolving health care market by acquiring the insurer Humana, according to The Wall Street Journal. The newspaper said that the retail giant is in early talks with Humana, a major provider of Medicare Advantage coverage for people age 65 and older. Citing anonymous sources, the Journal said late Thursday that the companies are discussing a number of options, including an acquisition. Walmart would not comment on what it called "rumors and speculation." Humana did not immediately return calls from The Associated Press. There have been a number of major health care deals announced in recent months as health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and retailers like the drugstore chain CVS Health try to get more involved in customer care and potentially corral costs. Advertisement Late last year, CVS announced a $69 billion bid to buy the health insurer Aetna. Another insurer, Cigna, agreed to pay $52 billion for pharmacy benefit manager Express Scripts Holding Corp. earlier this month. Humana and the nation's biggest health insurance company, UnitedHealth Group Inc., also are working on deals that will give them a bigger hand in delivering or monitoring care. Advertisement The online giant Amazon is working with billionaire Warren Buffett and JPMorgan Chase to create a company aimed at giving employees high-quality, affordable care.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. One major aim of these deals is to share patient data that will help monitor care and keep people healthy, especially those with chronic conditions who generate most of the health care spending in the United States. Some of the companies say they want to supplement the regular care a patient receives from a doctor by doing things like making sure people stay on their medicines or monitor blood sugar regularly. They also want to steer patients to clinics and urgent care centers and away from more expensive locations for care like emergency rooms. Walmart, the world's largest retailer, runs about 4,700 pharmacies nationwide. It also has added health clinics to some of its stores. Walmart already partners with Humana to provide prescription drug coverage. If the companies combine, Humana will likely steer its Medicare Advantage patients to Walmart stores for help managing chronic conditions and other services, Leerink analyst Ana Gupte said in a Friday research note. Humana provides Medicare Advantage coverage for more than 3.3 million people. Those plans are privately run versions of the government's Medicare program. Enrollment in that coverage has been growing for years, and that's expected to continue as baby boomers age and become eligible. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:20 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Haas have come out fighting after rivals stepped up their criticism of the U.S.-owned Formula One team's close technical ties to Ferrari. The newest team on the starting grid, who made their debut in 2016, have produced an impressively quick car whose  resemblance to last year's race-winning Ferrari has been highlighted. "I just don't know how it can be right that someone who's been in the sport for a couple of years with no resource could produce a car (like this)," Force India's chief operating officer Otmar Szafnauer told motorsport.com. "Does it happen by magic? If it does, I want the wand." Haas principal Guenther Steiner said his team had nothing to hide. Advertisement "Everybody is allowed to have an opinion. Some people have an opinion, which I think is based on no facts," he said on Friday in a preview of next week's race in Bahrain. Advertisement "I think the whole of Haas F1 team can be proud of the work done between last year and over the winter to produce the VF-18 and get it into its competitive condition. "It’s merit to them. They can be proud. If people have an issue, fine with me. We report what we are doing, like everybody else, to the FIA. That’s why I’m more than confident we are not doing anything wrong." Haas's chassis is built by Dallara in Italy. The team use Ferrari engines, gearboxes and front suspension as well as other parts they are allowed to buy in, and they have access to the Ferrari wind tunnel.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The sporting regulations bar teams from passing on or receiving information on listed parts, that could include data and drawings, directly to or from another competitor or via a third party. McLaren's double world champion Fernando Alonso dubbed the Haas a "Ferrari replica" in Melbourne. "I’m perfectly fine with how we do business," said Steiner. "We design our own aero, as per the regulations, and yes, we use mechanical parts from Ferrari, but everybody’s known that for the past two years. We are well above board, and happy to be where we are." Haas could have picked up a points bonanza in last Sunday's Australian opener but retired both cars, that had run fourth and fifth, due to wheels that were not properly attached at  pitstops. "We had too much work to do on the car and didn’t practice enough. I think the key to all of this is to get the practice in before the race so that we’re prepared for all aspects of the race," Steiner said. "We made mistakes, but we do have processes in place."  (Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Ed Osmond) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Ask Well  By                     
RICHARD KLASCO, M.D.

MARCH 30, 2018
 Q. Can I get two colds at once? A. Yes, you can. The phenomenon is known medically as coinfection and occurs when two germs, in this case viruses, cause infections at the same time. More than 100 viruses can cause the common cold, so it’s not unusual to be exposed to two at once. And, since one virus doesn’t typically confer immunity against the other, it’s not unusual to be infected by two viruses at once. The best data about coinfection come from studies of more serious viruses, such as H.I.V. and hepatitis. These studies show that coinfection can worsen, ameliorate or have no impact on the course of an illness. The outcome depends on the viruses involved. With H.I.V., coinfection with the two main types, H.I.V.-1 and H.I.V.-2, is actually beneficial. It slows the progression of the disease. Coinfection with H.I.V. and hepatitis C virus, on the other hand, worsens the outcome. Advertisement With influenza viruses, which cause respiratory infections similar to that of the common cold, coinfection is uncommon. Coinfection with influenza A and B, two major types of flu virus, occurs in fewer than 2 percent of cases but doesn’t seem to affect the overall outcome. Advertisement Coinfection with the common cold has proved difficult to study in the past because of the large number of viruses that can cause a cold. In the last few years, however, advances in molecular genetics have afforded scientists insights into the rhinovirus, the most common cause of the common cold.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In 2009, scientists were able to sequence all of the genetic material from the 99 known strains of rhinovirus. They found that coinfection with multiple strains is a common occurrence. They also found that coinfection provided viruses an opportunity to mutate into new strains. Diagnostic tests for many of the viruses that cause colds have now become commercially available. In 2013, doctors used these tests to study 225 children in day care. Almost half were infected with more than one virus when they got sick. Children infected with multiple viruses did not appear to be sicker than those infected with a single virus, but they stayed sick longer. These findings were recently confirmed by a systematic review of all published studies. So while you can get two colds at once, you probably won’t feel any worse than you would with one. The difference that you might experience is being sick for longer than you might otherwise expect. Do you have a health question? Ask Well A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Emily Cochrane Even with Congress on break, there was a lot of news this week. From the expulsion of Russian diplomats to a citizenship question on the 2020 census, here are five of the biggest stories in American politics this week, in a nutshell. (And some additional links if you want to read further.)  The Commerce Department announced on Monday that a question about American citizenship will be added to the 2020 census, a politically charged request from the Trump administration that many officials feared would result in a substantial undercount and faulty data. Critics of the change argue that amid a divisive national debate on immigration, many immigrants would be reluctant to return their census questionnaires, resulting in an undercount. At least a dozen states signaled Tuesday that they would sue the administration to block the change to the census, arguing that the change would violate the Constitution. Census data is important not just for redrawing political boundaries, but also for allocating billions of dollars of federal funding to the states. Here’s Why an Accurate census Count Is So Important If Census Asks About Citizenship, Some Already Have an Answer: No Comment A court document filed by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, said a top Trump campaign aide had repeated phone calls with a business associate tied to Russian intelligence during the final weeks of the 2016 presidential campaign. While Mr. Mueller did not identify the business associate with whom Rick Gates, the campaign official, spoke, the document released Tuesday stated that the communications were “pertinent to the investigation.”  The Times reported on Wednesday that a lawyer for Mr. Trump broached the idea of the president pardoning two of his former top advisers, Michael T. Flynn and Paul Manafort, with their lawyers, as the special counsel was building cases against the two men. The discussions suggest that Mr. Trump’s lawyers were concerned about what Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort might reveal were they to cut a deal with the special counsel in exchange for leniency. Justice Dept. Will be Investigated Over Surveillance of Trump Campaign Official Sessions Rejects Republican Calls for Second Special Counsel Mr. Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russians from the United States this week, the toughest action he has taken against the Kremlin. The order includes 12 people identified as Russian intelligence officers, and closes the Russian consulate in Seattle.  The move was part of a coordinated retaliation among over two dozen countries worldwide in response to Russia’s alleged poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.  The Kremlin responded Thursday, expelling 60 American diplomats, ordering the closing of the American consulate in St. Petersburg and warning that it plans to expel an unspecified number of diplomats from other countries.  The Post-World War II Order is Under Assault From the Powers That Built It It’s No Cold War, But Relations With Russia Turn Volatile After weeks of uncertainty, David J. Shulkin was dismissed as head of the Department of Veterans Affairs on Wednesday. In a Twitter post, President Trump named the White House physician, Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, as his choice to lead the federal government’s second largest department.  Hope Hicks, the White House communications director and Mr. Trump’s most trusted aide, formally left the White House on Thursday. It remains unclear who can and will replace her. Veterans Affairs Shake-Up Stirs New Fears of Privatized Care Trump Talks of Bringing Back Rob Porter, Aide Accused of Spousal Abuse Hope Hicks Acknowledges She Sometimes Tells White Lies for Trump The outgoing V.A. chief David Shulkin wrote that Privatizing the V.A. Will Hurt Veterans Mr. Trump secured a trade deal with South Korea this week, opening the South’s automobile market to American cars in the first significant trade deal of his administration. But during a rally Thursday, he suggested he might delay finalizing it.  While the deal represents the kind of one-on-one trade agreement Mr. Trump has pledged, it may have more to do with the upcoming geopolitical challenges involving nuclear discussions with North Korea. The trade pact, which had stalled amid disagreements this year, comes at a time when the United States needs South Korea as an ally. Trade Deals Take Years. Trump Wants to Remake Them in Months. Trump’s China Policy Has a Flaw. It Makes China the Winner.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:11 P.M. E.D.T.
 SHANGHAI —  China's manufacturing hubs of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Guangdong will work with the rustbelt northeast provinces of Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang to help rejuvenate their economies, the country's state planner said on Friday. In detailed implementation plans published on its website, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) called on eastern China's Jiangsu in the prosperous Yangtze river delta to boost cooperation and share resources with struggling Liaoning as part of China's latest efforts to revive the struggling "old industrial bases" of the northeast. Meanwhile, Zhejiang will take on Jilin province as a economic partner, and Guangdong will provide support to Heilongjiang. Separate plans were also published to establish partnerships between Beijing and Liaoning's capital, Shenyang, and between Shanghai and the Liaoning port of Dalian. Tianjin will also team up with Changchun, the capital of Jilin. Advertisement Zhejiang and Jilin will work to establish government, business and social cooperation mechanisms over the next two years and will "make significant improvements in the degree of economic integration". Advertisement Liaoning and Jiangsu will also build joint industrial parks and encourage the use of cross-regional public-private partnerships and the establishment of investment funds, the NDRC said. Liaoning's gross domestic product (GDP) rose 4.2 percent last year, one of the lowest rates in the country, and lagging the nationwide growth rate of 6.9 percent.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The smaller economies of Jilin and Heilongjiang grew 5.3 percent and 6.4 percent, respectively. Liaoning was also mired in a data falsification scandal involving years of inflated fixed asset investment numbers. It reported a 2.5 percent decline in GDP in 2016. China said last year that it would create cross-regional cooperation mechanisms allowing richer provinces in the east and southeast to provide expertise and resources to partner regions in the northeast. The northeastern provinces, dominated by giant state-owned enterprises and heavy industries like steel and mining, were once the mainstay of China's economy but they have struggled to keep up with the rapidly growing high-tech manufacturing regions on the eastern and southeastern coast. The region's workforce is also declining in numbers and also ageing rapidly, and a "rejuvenation" programme launched in 2003 and involving billions of yuan in infrastructure investment has failed to arrest the decline, with analysts saying it has failed to stimulate the private economy. (Reporting by David Stanway; Editing by Kim Coghill) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By CHRIS BUCKLEYMARCH 30, 2018
 BEIJING — Thirty years after Gao Chengyong embarked on a succession of 11 rape-murders of women in northwest China, a court sentenced him to death on Friday, following an investigation that involved sifting through 230,000 fingerprints. The sentence by a court in Baiyin, a small city in Gansu Province, was not unexpected in China, which executes more prisoners than any other. But the verdict against Mr. Gao, 53, a farmer, itinerant worker and shopkeeper, was widely reported, and applauded, in China, where the killings drew intense attention. “The motives for the defendant Gao Chengyong’s crimes were utterly despicable, the means were utterly vicious, the nature of the crimes utterly vile,” the court’s verdict stated, according to the China News Service, an official agency. The court found that Mr. Gao had killed 11 women, whom he usually followed to their homes. He murdered all but one around Baiyin; another woman was killed in Baotou, a city in the north Chinese region of Inner Mongolia. In many cases, he molested the women and dismembered their bodies. Besides homicide, he also was found guilty of rape and of defiling corpses. He stood trial last July. Advertisement When Mr. Gao was arrested in 2016, the last murder had taken place 14 years earlier, and the police needed advanced forensic technology, as well as an element of chance, to link him to the crimes. Advertisement Zhang Enwei, a forensic detective who helped solve the murders, said he had checked 230,000 sets of fingerprints trying to identify a suspect, Beijing News, a newspaper, reported on Friday. But Mr. Gao was one of hundreds of millions of rural migrants who move around, often slipping past city data checks, and he was not caught in the dragnet for fingerprints in Baiyin.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But by 2011, the detectives in Baiyin had acquired technology to trace DNA clues, and five years later a relative of Mr. Gao had his DNA sample taken after he was suspected of giving kickbacks. Their shared traits led the investigators to Mr. Gao, who was then running a small store in a school in Baiyin with his wife. Mr. Zhang said Mr. Gao was very calm when he was shown the evidence, according to the Beijing News. “Basically he did not offer too much of a defense,’’ Mr. Zhang said. “He knew that this day would come.” Mr. Gao said he would not appeal the sentence. In an interview last year, his defense lawyer, Zhu Aijun, denied reports that Mr. Gao had chosen as his victims only women and girls with long hair and dressed in red. Mr. Gao said he had “chosen his targets for crimes at random,” Mr. Zhu told a Chinese news website. “That was one of the reasons that it was so hard to crack the case for a long time.” A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Murderer Of 11 Women  In China Gets Death Penalty.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:03 A.M. E.D.T.
 Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. SACRAMENTO PROTESTERS HEED CALL TO AVOID DISRUPTING NBA GAME Hours after an emotional interruption at his brother's funeral, Stevante Clark helped defuse tension in California's capital city. 2. MOSCOW'S TIT-FOR-TAT EXTENDS DIPLOMATIC CONFLICT Russia will expel more than 150 diplomats, including 60 Americans, and close a U.S. consulate after Western expulsions of Russian diplomats over the British poisoning scandal 3. PRISONERS' KIN ASK PRESIDENT TRUMP FOR HELP Families of Japanese nationals abducted to North Korea decades ago want Trump to help win the abductees' release during his summit with North Korea's leader. 4. CAUSES OF CALIFORNIA CRASH MAY STAY A MYSTERY Investigators are trying to determine what caused an SUV carrying a Washington state family to plunge off a California cliff, but authorities might never figure out what happened. Advertisement 5. WHO ARE PREPARING FOR LARGE BORDER PROTESTS Palestinians stageing mass sit-ins along the border with Israel, a new attempt by Hamas to break a crippling, decade-old Gaza border blockade by Israel and Egypt. Advertisement 6. CHURCH GROUP CONCERNED WITH SEXUAL PREDATORS SEEKS RULE CHANGE Members of the Mormon Church are demanding an end to one-on-one interviews between Mormon youth and lay leaders, saying a parent or adult should be required for all meetings that usually happen twice a year starting at age 12.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 7. CATHOLIC FAITHFUL GO FAR IN FOLLOWING THE EXPERIENCES OF JESUS Filipino Roman Catholic devotees, including a woman, have been nailed to wooden crosses in a gory Good Friday reenactment of Jesus Christ's sufferings. 8. WHAT'S AT STAKE IN DATA SECURITY DEEP BENEATH THE SEA Russian ships are skulking around underwater communications cables, causing the U.S. and its allies to worry the Kremlin might be taking information warfare to new depths. 9. WHICH FEMALE BIBLICAL FIGURE IS BEING REASSESSED Mary Magdalene, long portrayed as a reformed former prostitute, in increasingly viewed as a strong, independent woman who supported Jesus financially and spiritually. 10. 'WAIT 'TILL NEXT YEAR' COMES AROUND AGAIN The 2018 Major League Baseball season started with Ian Happ of the Cubs homering on the very first pitch and Giancarlo Stanton hitting two home runs in his debut with the New York Yankees. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 7:15 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Loyola-Chicago's miraculous run to the Final Four will be remembered for clutch shots, the "Wall of Culture," a couple of guards who have been playing together since grade-school and, of course, Sister Jean. Regardless of whether the Ramblers beat Michigan (32-7) in the Final Four on Saturday night at the Alamodome to become the lowest seeded team to reach the national championship game, they have been the stars of this NCAA Tournament. Coach Porter Moser hopes his team's legacy is more than just memorable moments. Maybe the Ramblers' success can help turn around a troubling trend for programs from mid-major conferences that are finding it increasingly difficult to secure at-large NCAA bids. The Ramblers (32-5) are the fourth No. 11 seed to reach the Final Four. The last two were George Mason in 2006 and VCU in 2011. Both of those underdogs came from the Colonial Athletic Association, but unlike the Loyola, they didn't win their conference to earn an NCAA Tournament bid. "Those story lines wouldn't have happened in today's day and age because they wouldn't have got in," Moser said. Advertisement In 2006, eight at-large bids went to teams from conferences other than the Atlantic Coast Conference, Big East, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and Southeastern Conference. And that was when the field had still had only 64 teams. In 2011, when the field expanded to 68, seven at-large bids went to teams outside college basketball's big six conferences. This year, that number was down to five. Advertisement Loyola won both the Missouri Valley Conference Tournament and regular-season titles, but had the Ramblers stumbled in the league tournament there is a decent chance they would have been left out of the NCAA field. That's what happened to Middle Tennessee this season.  The Blue Raiders went 24-7 overall and 16-2 in the Conference USA, but were upset in the league's tournament and relegated to the NIT. Meanwhile, Marshall, which won the C-USA tournament, ended up winning a first-round NCAA game against fourth-seeded Wichita State. The problem, as Moser points out, is the selection committee's emphasis on schedule strength gives major conference teams a built-in advantage. Syracuse can go 8-10 in the ACC, but simply by having more opportunities to face what is considered better quality opponents the Orange can accumulate more impressive victories than a team such as Middle Tennessee can. "The thing that bothers me the most is us getting blamed for not having a tough schedule when we're trying our tails off," Moser said. Moser said getting games against teams in the power conferences — even in preseason tournaments — is becoming more difficult. Loyola played at Florida this season and beat the Gators in a buy game, when a power conference team cuts a check to the opponent instead of playing a future game at their place. The Ramblers success this season will make even those games harder for Loyola to get.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "To get bought now is tricky," Moser said. Third-seeded Michigan has been playing the underdog card for much of this season. The Wolverines were unranked nationally to start the season, predicted to finish in the middle of the pack in the Big Ten and stood at 19-7 on Feb. 6 after losing at Northwestern. The Wolverines have not lost since, winning 13 straight, including the Big Ten Tournament as the fifth seed. Against Loyola, Michigan will play the heavy favorite trying to spoil an all-time feel-good story. But the Wolverines also want to make clear they see the Ramblers, who have won 14 straight, as equals. "They're not a Cinderella team," Michigan's Charles Matthews said. "That is not a good way to explain it. They are a good team. They are a legit team. You can't keep saying this is luck. This is who they are." The Ramblers introduced themselves to the country by winning their first three tournament games by a total of 4 points, each time with a winning-shot in the waning seconds . The middle of the three came from Clayton Custer, the Iowa State transfer who was convinced to come to Loyola by childhood friend and fellow Ramblers guard Ben Richardson. Advertisement Basketball fans have gotten to know Moser's Wall of Culture, a collection of catchy phrases such as "Through You to the Rim" and "Reach for the Lights" he uses as teaching tools. And of course, Sister Dolores Jean Schmidt, the 98-year nun and Loyola super fan, stationed courtside in her wheelchair near the Ramblers bench. Sister Jean held a news conference Friday at the Alamodome, packing a meeting room with reporters and cameras. Moser hopes Loyola's performance will open the door for more mid-majors to get an opportunity to be the next Loyola, but, really, there will never been another bunch quite like this. ___ Follow Ralph D. Russo at www.Twitter.com/ralphDrussoAP ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:14 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW DELHI —  Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ruling party is struggling to change a "perception" that it is against minority Muslims and lower-caste people, a political ally said, which could cost it votes in a general election due next year. Modi's Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)  trounced the opposition at the last election in 2014, but it has lost a handful of recent by-elections after opposition groups banded together. Veteran politician Ram Vilas Paswan, a federal minister and the chief of the Lok Jan Shakti (People's Power) Party, which is allied with the BJP and says it represents India's socially backward classes, predicted another term for Modi. But he said the BJP would have to work towards changing its image as a group that caters mainly to upper-caste Hindus. Advertisement "Whatever the government is doing it is doing for everyone; even for the minority community it has done a lot," Paswan said in an interview in his bungalow, seated on a couch under a huge oil painting of himself. Advertisement "But despite everything, the perception is not changing among the minorities and the scheduled castes (socially backward classes) irrespective of the work being done." India's 1.3 billion people are about 80 percent Hindu and 14 percent Muslim, according to the latest census data. Backward classes make up about three-quarters of the Hindu population. Critics say the BJP's Hindu nationalist agenda has polarised the population. Since Modi came to power in 2014, hardline Hindu groups and cow protection vigilantes have carried out numerous attacks on Muslims accused of eating beef or killing cows. Many Hindus believe cows are sacred and killing them is banned in most states. 'WELL-MEANING' A crackdown on abattoirs, tanneries and leather factories, mostly run by Muslims, has also hit a large number of lower-caste Hindus who transport cattle and work in tanneries.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Paswan said the opposition could take advantage of the BJP's pro-upper class Hindu image and it needed to be countered aggressively. The BJP said Paswan's comment was a "well-meaning observation from an ally" but that the party has "foiled repeated attempts of the opposition Congress party to create an impression that the BJP is losing the perception battle". "We need to be cognizant of the fact that opposition parties have been raising a bogey of non-issues, but so far they've failed," said BJP spokesman G.V.L. Narasimha Rao. When Modi won office in 2014, his party or its partners ruled only seven of India's 29 states. Today, it is in power in 21 of them and has replaced Congress as the party with strongest nationwide presence. Advertisement But in by-elections for 10 parliamentary seats since last year, the BJP has lost all of them and two small regional parties have walked out of the ruling coalition. Paswan, whose party enjoys considerable support from the Muslim community in his home state of Bihar in the east, said ending ties with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was "unthinkable". "This is essentially a government of the BJP, they have an absolute majority. Still Modi has given space to allies like us," said Paswan, a 10-time member of parliament who began his political career in 1969. "Can't even think of leaving the NDA. No one has approached me and I am happy where I am." (Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan, Robert Birsel) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 12:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 PORTLAND, Maine —  Scientists say a species of large, but harmless, shark has been gathering in atypically big groups off of the northeastern United States and Canada. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says groups of 30 to 1,400 basking sharks have been seen in waters from Nova Scotia to Long Island, New York. The agency says sightings of basking sharks are common, but seeing them in such large groups is not. The basking shark is the second-largest fish on the planet. It can grow more than 25 feet (7.6 meters) in length, lives on a plankton diet and is not aggressive or dangerous to humans. NOAA says the reason why the animals have been congregating in large groups "has not been clearly determined," but it's likely related to feeding, socializing or courtship. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By RON NIXONMARCH 30, 2018
 WASHINGTON — The Trump administration said on Friday that it could immediately fund 100 miles of new and replacement border fencing, a first step in the president’s plans for building a wall on part of the United States’ nearly 2,000-mile border with Mexico. The replacement fencing includes 28 miles in the San Diego region and a new 30-foot-high barrier in Calexico, Calif., that extends for two miles. In New Mexico, the Border Patrol will replace 20 miles of barriers that are intended to stop vehicles with new fencing to prevent people from crossing into the United States. Ronald D. Vitiello, the acting deputy commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, described the construction as part of a new wall system because it would replace older, outdated barriers. Customs and Border Protection is the parent agency of the Border Patrol. A mix of barriers — like chain-link fences, steel walling and beams — already stretches across more than 650 miles of the border. Ultimately, Mr. Vitiello said, the administration aims to cover 1,000 miles on the border with fencing or a wall. Advertisement President Trump has made the border wall a focus of his campaign against illegal immigration that he says will stop drugs, terrorists and transnational gangs like MS-13 from coming into the United States. The wall is projected to cost $25 billion over the next 10 years. Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. This year, the administration asked for $1.6 billion to build a border wall in the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas. But Congress rejected that request in the spending bill it approved last week. Instead, lawmakers provided nearly $1.6 billion for border security — including new technology and repairs to existing barriers — in what the administration has since described as a down payment on a wall. Advertisement The spending plan includes just $641 million for about 33 miles of new fencing that was already authorized by the 2006 Secure Fence Act. The rest of the $1.6 billion is allocated to replace older border fencing and buy new aircraft, sensors and surveillance technology. Mr. Trump has expressed frustration at the inability to build the border wall and has spoken with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis about having the military pay for it. Shifting budget funds from the Defense Department would require congressional approval, which some lawmakers say is unlikely. A report last year by the Government Accountability Office found that Customs and Border Protection had not developed a system to test how border fencing or walls bolster security. The report found that fewer people were apprehended in areas with border barriers. But it also noted other factors — including terrain, demographics, geography, technology and the number of Border Patrol officers — also probably contributed to the drop in traffic. Officials at Customs and Border Protection acknowledged that a border wall alone would not stop illegal immigration or drug trafficking. But they said it was a critical component of a “layered approach” to securing the border, along with agents and technology like drones, sensors and cameras. “The truth is walls work,” Mr. Vitiello said. “The data shows it.” Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Says It Can Finance 100 Miles of Border Wall.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:26 A.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK/LONDON —  Global mergers and acquisitions (M&A) had their strongest start ever in the first quarter of 2018, totaling $1.2 trillion in value, as U.S. tax reform and faster economic growth in Europe unleashed many companies' dealmaking instincts. Strong equity and debt markets and swelling corporate cash coffers also helped boost the confidence of chief executives, convincing them that now is as good a time as ever to pursue transformative mergers, dealmakers said. "The clarity on tax has unclogged some of the M&A activity that was strategically imperative, but companies were waiting for the right financial timing," said Anu Aiyengar, head of North America M&A at JPMorgan Chase & Co. While the value of M&A deals globally increased 67 percent year-on-year in the first quarter of 2018, the number of deals dropped by 10 percent to 10,338, preliminary Thomson Reuters data show, reflecting how deals on average are getting bigger. Advertisement Among the largest deals clinched this quarter were U.S. health insurer Cigna Corp's $67 billion deal to acquire U.S. pharmacy chain Express Scripts Holding Co and German utility E.ON SE's $38.5 billion deal to acquire RWE AG's renewable energy business Innogy SE. Advertisement M&A volumes doubled in Europe in the first quarter, while the United States was up 67 percent and Asia was up 11 percent. "The better macro-economic environment in Europe has created greater confidence to get things done. Deals that have been in the works for a long time are now coming to fruition and some industries like utilities are being completely reshaped by the latest wave of consolidation," said Borja Azpilicueta, head of EMEA Advisory at HSBC Holdings Plc. In the United States, the stock market rally was thwarted in the first quarter by U.S. President Donald Trump's announcements on trade tariffs on Chinese imports. Corporate valuations are still elevated, but market volatility has increased.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Companies have become more aggressive in pursuing deals that make strong strategic sense. But valuations remain high and boards have recently become more cautious on large acquisitions, as it is more difficult to convince their investors of the potential for value creation at such price levels," said Gilberto Pozzi, co-head of global M&A at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Regulatory risk has also increased. Trump's dramatic intervention that blocked Singapore-based Broadcom Ltd's $117 billion hostile bid for U.S. chip maker Qualcomm Inc on grounds of national security earlier this month underscored heightened U.S. concerns about losing out to China in the race for new technologies. "While every auction used to see at least one Chinese participant, now people are questioning their ability to deliver and are conscious of the political pushback that Chinese bidders could face," said Johannes Groeller, a partner at PJT Partners Inc. On the antitrust front there is also some uncertainty. The U.S. Department of Justice has sued to block U.S. telecommunications company AT&T Inc's $85 billion deal to buy media company Time Warner Inc over concerns about how the two companies would consolidate their sectors. "The antitrust environment for M&A transactions seems favorable today though certain deals, which catch the attention of regulators or politicians for one reason or another, can be problematic," said Jack Levy, a partner at Centerview Partners Holdings LP. "One should resist the temptation to conclude from those specific deals that the antitrust regime has become more difficult," Levy added. Advertisement (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York and Pamela Barbaglia in London; Editing by Jacqueline Wong) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 11:32 A.M. E.D.T.
 PARIS —  Paris St Germain's early Champions League exit left them with little to play but they must still respect the Ligue 1 competition for the rest of the season, former player and coach Laurent Fournier has warned. The big-spending capital side, knocked out of Europe's premier club competition by Real Madrid in the last 16, have virtually wrapped up the Ligue 1 title as they lead second-placed Monaco by 17 points with seven games left. The teams meet in the League Cup final on Saturday, but PSG's big objective this season was the Champions League. "First they need to win the League Cup and then enjoy themselves until the end of the season," Fournier, who helped PSG win their only European title in 1996, the former Cup Winners Cup, told Reuters. Advertisement Fournier was named PSG coach in February, 2005 but was sacked midway through the following season. Asked if PSG should give young players an opportunity to shine, Fournier said it would be a risky option. Advertisement "You have to respect football and the clubs who still have something to play for in this league," he said. "Some clubs will be fighting against relegation and PSG should be careful not to distort the championship.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "They need to field the best possible team for each game, especially since they have records to chase," the former France international added. They are 13 points short of their own French record of 96, set in 2015-16, and could establish a best mark for goal difference, which they did in 2015-16 with plus 83. They are currently on 73. One record they will find harder to break, though, is for goals scored, having found the back of the net 95 times while RCA Paris netted 118 times in the 1959-60 season. The players, however, should still be motivated with the World Cup looming and victory on Saturday would earn PSG their 40th consecutive win in domestic cups going back to January, 2014. "Some of them could use the end of the season to gain confidence for the World Cup," Fournier said. "Apart from that they should have fun." (Reporting by Julien Pretot; Editing by Ed Osmond) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 

 Paula Span
 
 
 THE NEW OLD AGE
MARCH 30, 2018
 Sue Ellen King had circled her retirement date on the calendar: March 8, 2015. She had worked as a critical care nurse and nursing educator at University of Florida Health (UF Health) in Jacksonville, Fla., for 38 years; co-workers joked that she was there when the hospital’s foundation was laid, which happened to be true. So the send-offs went on for days — parties in the units where she had worked, a dinner in her honor, gifts including a framed photo signed by colleagues. Ms. King felt ready. She’d turned 66, her full Social Security retirement age. She’d invested fully in the hospital’s 401(k) plan and consulted with a financial adviser. She and her husband, who had already retired, had paid off the mortgage on their three-bedroom ranch. They took a week’s trip to Hilton Head, S.C., to celebrate their impending freedom. But her retirement lasted just three months. “I’d done all the preparation, except to really think about what life was going to be like,” Ms. King said. Days spent organizing recipes and photos, and lunching with friends, proved less engaging than expected. So when her handpicked replacement needed a maternity leave, Ms. King jumped at the chance to return for three months. Now back at work in a part-time position she designed for herself, she calls herself “a failed retiree.” Advertisement Economists refer to this sort of U-turn as “unretirement.” (In “partial retirement,” another variant, an employee cuts back to part-time status but doesn’t actually leave the workplace.) Advertisement Unretirement is becoming more common, researchers report. A 2010 analysis by Nicole Maestas, an economist at Harvard Medical School, found that more than a quarter of retirees later resumed working. A more recent survey, from RAND Corporation, the nonprofit research firm, published in 2017, found almost 40 percent of workers over 65 had previously, at some point, retired. “We definitely see evidence that retirement is fluid,” said Kathleen Mullen, a RAND senior economist and co-author of its American Working Conditions Survey. “There’s less of the traditional schedule: work to a certain age, retire, see the world. We see people lengthening their careers.” A Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics supports that observation. It reported that the proportion of Americans over age 65 who were employed, full-time or part-time, had climbed steadily from 12.8 percent in 2000 to 18.8 percent in 2016. More than half were working full time. Even more people might resume working if they could find attractive options. “We asked people over 50 who weren’t working, or looking for a job, whether they’d return if the right opportunity came along,” Dr. Mullen said. “About half said yes.” Why go back to work? We hear endless warnings about Americans having failed to save enough, and the need for income does motivate some returning workers. But Dr. Maestas, using longitudinal data from the national Health and Retirement Study, has found that the decision to resume working doesn’t usually stem from unexpected financial problems or health expenses. “It looks like something people are doing intentionally, instead of an oh-my-god response: ‘I’m running out of money; I have to go back to work,’” she said. “It’s much more about a choice.” Longer lives, better health and less physically taxing jobs than in previous generations help provide that choice, Dr. Maestas pointed out. “You hear certain themes: A sense of purpose. Using your brain,” she said. “And another key component is social engagement.” Earning money, while welcomed, rarely proved the primary incentive. Advertisement Michelle Wallace, who lives in Broomfield, Colo., learned about purpose over 20 frustrating months. After decades in telecommunications, she said, she retired abruptly from a project management position in 2013, when her workplace turned chaotic and hostile. She’d saved enough to feel economically secure. But without a job, “I felt like I was free-floating, bobbing along on the ocean,” she said. “I felt very ungrounded.” Friends noticed her becoming more reclusive; her doctor increased her anti-depressants. In 2015, she took a part-time job with a small business that supports government researchers. Now 69, she has no interest in retiring again. “As long as somebody wants me, I have a lot to contribute,” she said. Most retirees who returned to work told researchers they had long planned to re-enter the work force. But among those who expected to remain retired but then changed their minds, Dr. Maestas has identified a subgroup going through “burnout and recovery.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Some people have a lot of stress, pressure and physical demands” in their jobs, she noted. “Their interactions with people at work could be strained or hostile.” After a restorative break, they can find work that suits them better. Thana Christian, a social worker in Oakland, felt crushed by her workload at a county child protective services agency. She retired at 63, because “the job was killing me.” For 18 months, she gardened and biked, took pottery and quilting classes, felt lonely but figured she would adjust. Then a chance conversation at the local senior center turned toward work. “It hit me like a thunderbolt, how much I missed social work,” she said. “That’s who I was.” Online, Ms. Christian quickly learned that the Kaiser Permanente Oakland Medical Center needed on-call social workers, giving them the flexibility to set their own hours. Once hired, she tried various combinations and settled on working Mondays and Fridays. “Two days a week doesn’t feel like work,” she said, now 66. “It’s an addition to my life.” Advertisement Researchers note that older workers have different needs. “Younger workers need the paycheck,” Dr. Mullen said. “Older jobseekers look for more autonomy, control over the pace of work. They’re less concerned about benefits. They can think about broader things, like whether the work is meaningful and stimulating.” Of course, workplaces present challenges, too. Nearly as many older workers face repetitive tasks or physical demands as younger ones, the RAND survey found, and they report slightly less support from bosses and cooperation from colleagues. Class and education matter, too. “People with less education are in more taxing jobs,” Dr. Maestas said. In the RAND survey, 60 percent of older college graduates who had retired said they would be interested in returning to the workforce for the right job. Just 40 percent of those without degrees felt the same way. Still, two-thirds of older workers report satisfaction in work well done, a majority that includes Sue Ellen King. Now 69, she puts on her scrubs twice a week, providing nursing education on the night shift from 7 p.m. until 2 a.m. She feels needed, but not overwhelmed. “It’s perfect,” she said. “I get the ego reinforcement of having people appreciate what I do. And I appreciate the downtime — now that it’s not all downtime.” Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: When Retirement Doesn’t Quite Work Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:51 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Dale Brown sat glued to the TV the NCAA Tournament's first two weekends, unable to look away from the string of upsets, reveling in UMBC's history-altering win and Loyola-Chicago's run to the Final Four. Even today, the 82-year-old former LSU coach can't help it. "Cheering for an underdog is really in my DNA," Brown said from Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Brown comes by it honestly. He led one of college basketball's greatest underdogs right into the Final Four. The top three post players, lost for the season. A chickenpox outbreak leading to hospitalizations and quarantines. A backup swingman converted to starting center. Knocking off 1-, 2- and 3-seeds in a row to become the first double-digit seed to reach the Final Four. Advertisement If LSU's 1985-86 season isn't the most improbable of all-time, it's certainly up there. "After that run, I didn't need to see the sun dance in the sky or the sea part. I saw it already," Brown said. Advertisement LSU had modest expectations heading into the 1985-86 season. The Tigers were coming off consecutive NCAA Tournament appearances, had a solid core of post players, some decent shooters and a future NBA forward in John Williams. Trouble started before the regular season even began. Tito Horford, a top recruit from the Dominican Republic, was suspended by Brown and ended up transferring to Miami without ever playing a game at LSU. Seven-foot sophomore center Zoran Jovanovich went out next, suffering a season-ending knee injury from a car crash during Christmas break. Then 6-7 junior Nikita Wilson became academically ineligible. "We've gone from an NBA-size team to a big junior high team," senior team captain Don Redden joked at the time. Brown's answer to the post problems: Convert 6-7 reserve swingman Ricky Blanton to center. The problem: Blanton had never played with his back to the basket, even in junior high. "I call him in the office, said 'Ricky, what I'm about to tell you, you have to ponder with your brain and figure it out and not panic,'" Brown said. "'You're the answer to our problem. You're going to play center.' His eyes got big as saucers." The Tigers' problems were not over. A chickenpox outbreak went through the team, sending Williams, the team's best player, and Bernard Woodside to the hospital. Several other players had to be quarantined in the dorm and a nationally-televised game against Auburn postponed. Brown recruited football player Chris Carrier just to have enough healthy bodies to shore up his roster. Advertisement The attrition took a toll. After opening the season 9-0, the Tigers limped to the finish with seven losses in 11 games and lost to Kentucky for a third time that season in the SEC Tournament.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then came a break. Actually, two. Despite everything they had been through, the Tigers found their way into the NCAA Tournament. Not only that, they played their first two games at home, much to the dismay of Purdue and Memphis. Relying on a defense tabbed "Freak" and Blanton's craftiness inside, LSU knocked off Purdue in double overtime and beat third-seeded Memphis State on Anthony Wilson's banked-in jumper at the buzzer. "One of the things was they had nothing to lose because nobody expected them to win or get there," Brown said. "But as we rolled along, they were always on a high, smiling, there didn't seem to be any pressure." The "Freak," a constantly-switching series of zones, continued to wreak havoc and Blanton held his own against a series of future NBA players: Memphis State's William Bedford, Georgia Tech's John Salley, Kentucky's Kenny Walker. The Tigers beat Georgia Tech, which also had future NBA All-Star Mark Price, to reach the Elite Eight, earning a fourth shot at Kentucky. The Wildcats went through the SEC 17-1 and beat LSU three times, but the Tigers held their ground in the Southeast Region final. LSU kept Kentucky within reach, went ahead on Blanton's basket with 17 seconds left and withstood a last-second half-court heave to improbably reach the Final Four. The Tigers remained the only No. 11 seed to reach the Final Four until George Mason pulled it off in 2006. VCU in 2011 and Loyola this year added to the short list of 11 seeds in the Final Four. "Even though in my heart I believed what I was telling them, I was more shocked by what they were doing more than they did," Brown said. "They believed so strongly and were so youthful and were more accepting of things." Advertisement The unexpected run ended in the national semifinals. The Tigers came out flat against Louisville to fall into a big halftime hole and never recovered, their season ending a game short of the national finals with an 88-77 loss. "When I walked into the dressing room at halftime, it was bizarre," Brown said. "The room was quiet, like the air had been let out of a balloon or something. It was the high of getting there, the constant fatigue of winning games because the underdog has to constantly put out more effort than the big dog." Even as underdogs, the Tigers showed they could hang with the big dogs. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:30 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  These days, the Final Four is all about the 3. Gone are the days when the long-range shot was the low-percentage bet in college basketball compared with layups and midrange jumper. Now — much like its record usage in the NBA — it's an indispensable piece of the arsenal for any team with serious hopes of winning the national championship. Look no further than the last four teams at the Alamodome still contending for the NCAA title. Villanova, Kansas, Michigan and Loyola-Chicago all can knock down 3s at high rates and won't hesitate to launch them — which could mean a big leap from past Final Fours when 3s weren't quite so plentiful. "It's a huge part of our offense, and the other teams as well," said the Wolverines' Moe Wagner, a 6-foot-11 forward who shoots just shy of 40 percent from behind the arc. "It's really a big part of college basketball to be honest with you. There are no good teams out there anymore that can't shoot." The 3-point production jumps out in each team's stats: — Villanova (34-4) shoots 40 percent from behind the arc and has made 436 3s, putting the Wildcats six away from matching the NCAA Division I record set by VMI in 2007 entering Saturday's national semifinal against fellow 1-seed Kansas. Advertisement — The Jayhawks (31-7) rank 11th nationally in 3-point percentage (.403) with an unusually guard-heavy lineup. Advertisement — Michigan (32-7) has five players shooting at least 37 percent from behind the arc. — Loyola-Chicago (32-5) averages the fewest of the four (7.5) but has made 30 of 72 (.417) attempts in four NCAA games. And don't forget, the only reason Loyola-Chicago and Michigan are even meeting in Saturday's first semifinal is because both made a miss-and-go-home 3 in the tournament. The Ramblers got one just before the buzzer from Donte Ingram to beat Miami in the first round, while the Wolverines needed Jordan Poole to beat the horn to survive against Houston in the second. Only one team — Oklahoma in 2016 — had averaged at least nine made 3s per game in the past eight Final Fours, but there are three this weekend alone: Villanova at 11.5, Kansas at 10.1 and Michigan at 9.0. There was a common refrain among players Friday about their use of the 3. "We just try to lean on the best shot," said Loyola-Chicago freshman Lucas Williamson, who is shooting 42 percent on 3s. "We're not really banking on just winning the game by 3s." Still, it's easy to see where some of that influence is coming from: the NBA. As the quartet bring the potential for a 3-heavy weekend on college basketball's biggest stage, the NBA was set Friday night to set a league-wide record for made 3s for the sixth straight season. And the Golden State Warriors have spent the past three-plus seasons putting on a small-ball show full of 3-point barrages, winning two championships and playing for a third.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Now recruits watch Stephen Curry and James Harden repeatedly launching 3s and arrive in college looking to emulate that free-flowing style that is only growing in popularity. And in the college game, 3s are easier because the line is a good 3 feet closer to the basket than in the pros (though Associated Press All-American Devonte' Graham of Kansas spent time during Friday's open practice shooting corner 3s from out of bounds). The influence of the pro game isn't lost on coaches. "We all learn from those guys; they're the best — players and coaches," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "And then I think the rules ... the emphasis on freedom of movement, lack of physicality is making that the evolution of the game — skill, perimeter shooting. Advertisement "And that's where I think this is going to continue to be a big part of the game. And then in college we all look and see who gets to the Final Four and what they're doing. And a lot of us emulate that." Sometimes it's borne out of necessity — or in Kansas coach Bill Self's case, desperation. The Jayhawks have long had inside-out post play to go with gritty defense. But this year's team didn't have a lot of size outside of 7-foot sophomore Udoka Azubuike, then lost 6-10 freshman Billy Preston to an NCAA eligibility issue that ended with him signing with a professional team in Bosnia without playing a game for the Jayhawks. Instead, the offense is built around Graham, Mississippi State transfer Malik Newman, Svi Mykhailiuk and Lagerald Vick in a strong backcourt. The result? Kansas' 10.1 made 3s per game is easily the highest of Self's 15-year tenure. "You've got to coach to your personnel and coach to your roster," Self said. "And with our situation, the only chance that we felt and certainly the best chance for us to have a good year would be to get guards to be tough enough to defend a big. "And if you can do that and you can stretch and play around one guy that can score (inside), that's usually hard to guard." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:54 P.M. E.D.T.
 A new season is upon us and for those who enjoy the inner game, there's a revolution going on. Serious fans are familiar with analytics, the use of statistical information to support baseball theory. No longer are scouts, eye tests and gut feelings the only way. From removing starters, to shifting infielders to trading players, analytics are used. Can you imagine the information available to the modern manager as he makes out his lineup? Gone are the days that eight guys knew they were the regulars no matter who was pitching. If a player's record against a certain pitcher is not good, he doesn't play. Success rate of the sacrifice bunt, success rate of the stolen base, swinging in certain counts, everything is now swayed by statistical analysis. Imagine knowing the exact percentage of times a pitcher throws a certain pitch in a given count. It's available! Baseball, just like society, has entered the Information Age. Advertisement Earl Weaver will be turning over in his grave as Alexa will soon be able to run a game. For hitters, exit velocity and launch angle and distant traveled are available on a screen in the batting cage. In golf, there is the widely used TrackMan. Now baseball has it. Advertisement From the standpoint of being useful, this information can help a hitter feel different dynamics of the swing. But searching for the optimum launch or exit velocity is useless for most hitters. Where is the line drawn for needing this information? This spring I learned that a slight upward swing plane is the optimum for creating productive contact. More simply put, hitters now want the ball in the air, not on the ground. Here's the first thing you need to know to support this theory. The average major league fastball arrives at home plate at 85.2 mph on a 6-degree angle of decline. Players today are now coached that a zero-degree plane creates what the pitcher wants, groundballs. Apparently the numbers support that. To be on a level plane with the pitch, the swing would be slightly up. To be on a home run plane, the ideal would be 10 to 20 degrees up through the equator of the ball. This data has convinced several of today's hitters to buy in. Wouldn't this open your eyes to the possibility of trying an upward swing? Why not go over the top of the shift? It's easier. It's natural, it's what you did in Little League or your backyard when dad tossed you a Wiffle ball. You tried to launch it in the air. You didn't have any responsibility like getting on base, advancing runners or protecting the plate. You had no accountability then.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As a pro you do, albeit not enough. What percentage of balls in the air are safe hits vs. balls on the ground? Remove line drives and compare groundballs to flyballs, what then? Add in offspeed pitches, the great equalizers. And what about hitting a ball with backspin? My experience tells me that can only be done with a descending swing plane. An upward plane creates topspin. Tennis shows us that — swing up to curl the ball, down to cut or backspin the ball. Advertisement I call this new approach to hitting "freelancing." It's hitters having fun, more of an all-or-nothing approach with little accountability. Home runs and runs scored have gone up over the last five years, as have strikeouts. Hitters are facing shifting defenses and high fastballs that increase their chance of making an out. Isn't a hitter's goal to not make an out? Maybe that's old school. Today an out is an out — why not take the risk of a home run and live with the strikeouts? I spent 20 years studying and experimenting with different approaches to hitting. I wrote a book, "The Mike Schmidt Study," with many hitting coaches, studying the differences in hitting mechanics. One, for sure, what the optimum swing plane should be. But I didn't have analytics at my disposal. Would I have changed with this new information? I don't know. All I do know is Henry Aaron, Barry Bonds, Dave Winfield, Gary Sheffield, Al Oliver, Dick Allen and myself, to name a few, swung down to the ball. I became a complete hitter and had my finest days when I eliminated the uppercut. It increased my ability to win the battle with the pitcher, which is the heart of the game. So with small ballparks, loaded bats and the lure of millions for home runs, why not groove the uppercut? Sounds like fun. Fans in the outfield, bring your gloves. ___ Editor's Note: Mike Schmidt hit 548 home runs and was a three-time NL MVP with the Philadelphia Phillies. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Opinion By Alex Wagner Racially speaking, the United States is zero percent Hispanic. This is confusing — especially for America’s nearly 58 million Hispanics. The United States census breaks our country into six general racial categories: White; Black; Asian; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; American Indian or Alaska Native; and Some Other Race. “Hispanic, Latino or Spanish origin” is treated not as a race but as an ethnicity — a question asked separately. So someone may be White (Hispanic) or Black (Hispanic) but not simply Hispanic. As a result, many Hispanics check “White” or, increasingly, “Some Other Race.” This ill-defined category is what mixed-race Americans, like me — half Burmese, half Luxembourgian-Irish — often check. It might just as well be called “Generally Brown.” Today, the third-largest racial group in America is “Some Other Race” — and it is made up overwhelmingly of Hispanics. Equally obscured are America’s estimated 3.7 million residents of Arab descent. With neither a racial nor an ethnic category to call their own, they most often opt for a racial designation of “White.” But to count Yemenis and Syrians as generically white is a complicated proposition these days, when whiteness confers power, and men and women from the Arab world are instead the subjects of travel bans and national security debates. Nearly four years ago, the Census Bureau began researching how to more accurately represent these populations and decided to combine the race and ethnicity questions into one, and to add two new categories: one for residents of Middle Eastern/North African origin and one for those of Hispanic origin. Many advocates within those groups celebrated the reforms, and the broad expectation was that the next census, in 2020, would incorporate these changes. After all, the bureau itself concluded that they were necessary to “produce the highest quality statistics about our nation’s diverse population.” But in January, the bureau abruptly announced it would not move forward with the reforms after all, saying only that “more research and testing” was needed on the addition of a Middle Eastern/North African category. While the Census Bureau has shown strange reluctance to enact these vetted changes, it has been unusually aggressive in making others. On Monday, news broke that the 2020 census would include a question asking respondents whether they are United States citizens. The question, requested by the Department of Justice late last year, has not been included on the census since 1950. It has not been tested at all and was first proposed some nine months after the bureau was supposed to have submitted the 2020 questionnaire topics. These changes matter. Census data is used to determine more than $675 billion in federal funding; it is a demographic Rosetta Stone that is referenced in the drawing of congressional districts, each state’s number of Electoral College votes and the application of civil rights laws, including the Voting Rights Act and the Fair Housing Act. To be counted in the census is to be both seen and supported. While the Trump administration contends the citizenship question will help the Justice Department more “effectively” enforce the Voting Rights Act, what it will actually do is drive millions of Americans, many of them Hispanic, into the shadows. Undocumented residents and even green-card holders may fear that filling out the census could put them at risk of deportation and decide it’s better not to be counted at all. At least 12 states have announced they will sue the administration, and others are likely to follow. “In the current environment, where there is overt hostility toward immigrants coming from the White House, this does not generate trust in the census,” said Arturo Vargas, the executive director of the Naleo Educational Fund. According to Tomás Jiménez, a sociologist at Stanford specializing in immigration and assimilation, “the intent is incredibly nefarious.” How to conclude otherwise? Reforms to the census focused on millions of Hispanics and Middle Easterners, based on years of research, have been tossed aside. It is not a coincidence that these are two groups President Trump has targeted repeatedly. His administration’s decisions will cost those men and women, in both political and concrete ways. It is also no coincidence that the reforms the administration is resisting would have decreased the number of American “Whites.” Census research showed that when presented with the proposed changes, Hispanics identified as “Hispanic” alone at significantly higher rates than they did as “White (Hispanic)” or “Some Other Race (Hispanic).” The same was true for residents of Middle Eastern origin, who, when given a category of their own, mostly chose it over “White.” This would have exposed the fact that the category of “Whites” has been artificially inflated, eroding its primacy at a time when whiteness — of the decidedly European strain — has gained new currency. To be white in President Trump’s America is to fundamentally belong. Unlike brownness, which remains at the margins, whiteness is at the center of the American origin story — a powerful narrative about how this country came to be and what made it great (and indeed what might make it great again). Perhaps this is the reason the administration opted to ignore the advice of its own bureau, to keep America’s demographic destiny at bay and, in so doing, to silence the narrative about who we really are. Or maybe it was this: In our present moment of marginalization and deportation, scorn and dismissal, to self-identify as Hispanic or Arab-American is a political act. To be counted is to secure a place in the story of this country. It is to will the American narrative to bend in the direction of change. No wonder this government has taken the tool with which to do so off the table. There is strength in numbers, after all. What better way to undermine that strength than to refuse a count in the first place? Alex Wagner is a contributing editor at The Atlantic, a co-host of “The Circus” on Showtime and the author of the forthcoming book “Futureface: A Family Mystery, an Epic Quest and the Secret to Belonging.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:03 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  No. 1 seed Kansas (31-7) vs. No. 1 seed Villanova (34-4) National semifinal; San Antonio; Saturday, 8:49 p.m. EDT BOTTOM LINE: In an NCAA Tournament that had the first No. 16 seed win over a No. 1, and an unprecedented 9-vs-11 regional final, two No. 1 seeds made it to the Final Four. Only one will play for the national title since perennial Big 12 champion Kansas plays Villanova in the second regional semifinal game. ALL-AMERICAN GUARDS: Both teams have AP All-America guards. Villanova's Jalen Brunson was also named The Associated Press men's college basketball player of the year. Kansas senior Devonte' Graham was the Big 12 player of the year. "It deserves the hype, but at the end of the day, we both know that it is Kansas vs. Villanova, not Jalen vs. Devonte,'" Graham said. Advertisement Brunson is averaging 19.2 points game and 4.6 assists per game while hitting 41 percent of his 3-pointers (82 of 198). Graham has 17.2 points and 7.3 assists per game, and shoots 40 percent from long range (106 of 263). Advertisement BEYOND THE ARC: Villanova made only four 3-pointers in their 71-59 East Region final victory over Texas Tech, its second-lowest total of the season. But the Wildcats enter the Final Four with 436 3-pointers, which is only six shy of the NCAA single-season record set by VMI in 2007.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. SO CLOSE TO LAST TITLE: The Alamodome is about a 200-mile drive from Houston, where two years ago the Wildcats won their first championship since 1985 when Kris Jenkins hit a buzzer-beating 3-pointer. Villanova got to that Final Four after beating Kansas 64-59 in the South Region final. Coach Jay Wright said he sees threads between the 2016 title team and this year's squad. "All the teams that are here, you have a laser focus, you have an ability to prepare for different opponents. If you don't, someone's going to catch you along the way. And it really has to be at a high level," Wright said. "And this group reminds me of our group in '16 in that way. And I feel like we're getting better as the season goes on, even at this time of year. And that's something that's similar to our team in '16." A DECADE AGO: The Jayhawks this season won an unprecedented 14th consecutive conference title. But it's now been 10 years since they won their fifth national title. That Final Four was also the last one played at the Alamodome. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Ancient Egyptian leaders increased their empire’s grain production and crossbred cattle for resilience in an early effort to ward off climate disaster, a study shows. By Livia Albeck-Ripka Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. More than 3,000 years ago the queen of the Hittites, who lived in what is now Turkey, sent a clay tablet to Ramses II, the Egyptian pharaoh, with an S O S: “I have no grain in my lands.” Previously, the two kingdoms had been at war. Now a severe drought was carving a path of destruction through the ancient Levant, killing crops, cattle and people. But the Egyptians, unlike the Hittites, had anticipated a crisis and planned ahead for a food shortage, researchers at Tel Aviv University say. And in an attempt to stabilize their borders, the pharoahs appear to have mounted a relief effort, sending grain to their former enemies. In a study published in this year’s edition of the journal Egypt and the Levant, the researchers pieced together ancient evidence — including flint and bone records from the fallen city of Megiddo, fossilized pollen data from the Sea of Galilee and ancient cattle DNA — to shed light on how Bronze Age Egyptians used careful planning and policies to adapt to a drought that lasted from around 1250 B.C. to 1100 B.C., while their ancient counterparts appeared to be less well prepared. Even with preparation, however, the Egyptian empire ultimately collapsed. But the study shows how recognizing and preparing for climate disaster can make societies more resilient. “All this put together, you see a picture of a crisis and the reaction of an empire in order to try to stabilize the situation,” said Israel Finkelstein, a professor of archaeology at Tel Aviv University and the lead author of the paper. “For a while they managed, and then it was too late.” For about a decade, archaeologists have known that widespread drought in the Mediterranean was a culprit in the fall of civilizations there in the Late Bronze Age. But it is only in this latest study that evidence of the pharaohs’ prescience has emerged: In anticipation of a crisis in their empire’s southeastern arid zones, ancient leaders ordered increased grain production in its greener parts, and crossbred local cattle with zebu, or humped cattle, to create a more heat-resistant plow animal, the researchers found. At the ancient ruins of Megiddo in northern Israel, Dr. Finkelstein and his colleagues also discovered sickle blades used for harvesting grain, and an unusually high frequency of cattle bones. The age of those bones indicates that the animals were used for plowing crops, rather than eaten, explained one of the paper’s authors, Lidar Sapir-Hen, an archaeozoologist from the Steinhardt Museum of Natural History at Tel Aviv University.  These agricultural feats managed to extend the life of the Egyptian empire about half a century longer than it might otherwise have lasted, according to the archaeologists. The lesson for our own civilization — which is likely to face increasingly severe droughts as humans change the climate far faster than nature has ever done — is to plan ahead, Dr. Finkelstein said. “This collapse of the Late Bronze Age is not just a matter of ancient history that has no relevance to us,” said Eric H. Cline, a professor of classics and anthropology at George Washington University, who worked at the Megiddo site for two decades but was not involved in this latest study. Just as drought was among the “stressors” leading to famine and war during the Bronze Age, Dr. Cline said, today’s droughts could amplify existing problems.  “It’s a perfect storm: You’ve got not just drought and famine but there’s also earthquakes, there’s also invaders, and that’s what causes collapse,” he said, referring to a confluence of events which some think led to the end of the Bronze Age, which included powerful earthquakes in the region, and the invasion of the Levant by a group known as the Sea Peoples. The ancient world, like our own, was interdependent and suffered a “domino” fall, Dr. Cline added. Gavin A. Schmidt, the director of the Goddard Institute for Space Studies at NASA, said that in some ways, modern civilization had not advanced much in its coping mechanisms for climate crises. “If the sea is rising, you either get out of the way, or you get flooded; if there’s a drought, you either plant more drought-resistant crops, or you die,” he said. But, he added, modern humans possess much better predictive power and are therefore “the first generation who is able to take mitigation seriously.” Yet many countries are still behind on goals set as part of the 2015 Paris climate agreement. “This is the tragedy,” said John F. Haldon, a historian at Princeton University who studies how ancient civilizations coped with climatic upheaval. “Everyone’s aware of the problem but there’s a massive stasis in the system.” If a civilization’s leadership “has feet of clay and isn’t willing to take the challenge on in an innovative way,” Dr. Haldon said, “then often the challenge will overcome them.” Present-day humanity may have the resources and tools to deal with climate change, Dr. Haldon said, but action is often stifled by those who have a vested interest in denying the reality of human-caused climate change. “We seem to have the idea that people in ancient times or people in the past generally weren’t quite as clever as we are, but Homo sapiens is Homo sapiens,” he said. “If it’s something that we are creating — and we see what happened the last time — I think we’d be foolish not to take steps to stop it,” Dr. Cline said. “The problem is when we have deniers,” he added. “Then we’re no better off than the Hittites.” Follow @NYTClimate on Twitter Livia Albeck-Ripka is a reporting fellow at The New York Times.  @livia_ar Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:26 A.M. E.D.T.
 BRUSSELS —  A full-scale global trade war has not broken out yet - but that hasn't stopped the market from fretting about one or analysts from warning about the potential cost. Whether such concerns remain a driving force for asset prices in the coming days depends largely on decisions, tweets and formal announcements from Washington and Beijing, but it seems certain that the uncertainty has at least another month to run. South Korea has cut a deal with the United States, agreeing to reduce its steel exports to avoid tariffs. The European Union, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Australia and Argentina face a May 1 deadline to reach equivalent deals. U.S. President Donald Trump has tied the suspension of tariffs for Canada and Mexico to a renegotiation of NAFTA. Officials have said the next round of talks was due to start on April 8, but that date is not certain and there are mixed messages on the chances of a quick breakthrough. Advertisement China has meanwhile warned that it could target a broad range of U.S. businesses if Trump slapped tariffs on $50 billion-$60 billion of largely high tech Chinese goods, although the latter may not happen until early June. Advertisement SLIPPERY SLOPE Economists at ING split such a conflict into four stages from a lone Trump attack to a tit-for-tat battle to U.S. escalation, such as including EU cars, and finally an all-out trade war. The last, ING estimates, would harm all economies, with the United States facing the heaviest hit, of some 2 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) over two years, with U.S exporters facing high tariffs at all borders while the rest of the world keeps its prevailing arrangements in place. Only in the first scenario, in which Trump imposes tariffs and no one retaliates, would the United States make any noticeable economic gain - of some 0.3 percent of GDP. ING's head of international trade analysis Raoul Leering said that the conflict was currently somewhere between the first scenario and the second 'tit-for-tat' stage. "If other countries give in and give Trump something in return, then we're looking at scenario one," he said. "It's a conflict in which Trump could turn out to be the winner." Harm Bandholz, chief U.S. economist at UniCredit, believes that the trade conflict is likely to be the main driver of market sentiment for weeks to come, although for the time being it is "barely more than tough talk", with strong announcements then watered down, such as with the metal tariff exemptions. "If it stays like this it's not really altering anything in the macro outlook. The risk is, once you've started, you're on a slippery slope and you don't know if you can stop. That's the risk markets are worried about," he said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "People are worried about accidents happening. Clearly, if you are more aggressive, the chances of mistakes or something bad happening will increase." Advertisement EUROPEAN PRICES, U.S. JOBS All that said, and even with many in Europe off for Easter vacation, some major economic data is due in the coming week. The Bank of Japan's quarterly tankan survey, out on Tuesday, is expected to show business sentiment deteriorating slightly in the three months to March with the outlook for the coming quarter also fading, reflecting concerns over the strong yen eroding business profits. In Europe, the first estimate of euro zone inflation will be released on Wednesday and is forecast to have risen to 1.4 percent in March from 1.1 percent in February, with some economists pointing to a potential 1.5 percent. An earlier Easter this year, pushing up prices of package holidays and accommodation in March, cold weather that drives fruit and vegetable prices higher and a steeper year-on-year increase in energy costs will all contribute. Even if inflation remains short of the European Central Bank's target of almost 2 percent, its policymakers are now debating whether to end lavish bond buys later this year. The purchase program currently runs until the end of September. U.S. monthly non-farm payrolls round off the week on Friday. The economy is seen adding far fewer jobs than the 313,000 of February, but the average Reuters forecast for March of 203,000 is still strong and the unemployment rate is set to fall to 4.0 percent, a level not seen since 2000. "We see further declines of the rate below the level the Fed thinks is the natural rate of unemployment. Over time, you would expect it would exert upward pressure on wages, which admittedly we have not really seen," Commerzbank's Bernd Weidensteiner. "It should happen during the course of this year. Otherwise, we really need to rethink our picture of the workings of the U.S. labor market." (Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop; Editing by Hugh Lawson) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By SEWELL CHANMARCH 30, 2018
 Nearly all applicants for a visa to enter the United States — an estimated 14.7 million people a year — will be asked to submit their social media user names for the past five years, under proposed rules that the State Department issued on Friday. Last September, the Trump administration announced that applicants for immigrant visas would be asked for social media data, a plan that would affect 710,000 people or so a year. The new proposal would vastly expand that order to cover some 14 million people each year who apply for nonimmigrant visas. The proposal covers 20 social media platforms. Most of them are based in the United States: Facebook, Flickr, Google+, Instagram, LinkedIn, Myspace, Pinterest, Reddit, Tumblr, Twitter, Vine and YouTube. But several are based overseas: the Chinese sites Douban, QQ, Sina Weibo, Tencent Weibo and Youku; the Russian social network VK; Twoo, which was created in Belgium; and Ask.fm, a question-and-answer platform based in Latvia. During his campaign, President Trump promised “extreme vetting” of people seeking to enter the United States, and last March the State Department directed consular officers worldwide to step up scrutiny of visa applicants. Advertisement But the new proposal would add a tangible new requirement for millions of people who apply to visit the United States for business or pleasure, including citizens of such countries as Brazil, China, India and Mexico. Advertisement Citizens of roughly 40 countries to which the United States ordinarily grants visa-free travel will not be affected by the requirement. Those countries include major allies like Australia, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and South Korea. In addition, visitors traveling on diplomatic and official visas will mostly be exempted. As news of the plan emerged on Friday, so did criticism. “This attempt to collect a massive amount of information on the social media activity of millions of visa applicants is yet another ineffective and deeply problematic Trump administration plan,” said Hina Shamsi, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s National Security Project. “It will infringe on the rights of immigrants and U.S. citizens by chilling freedom of speech and association, particularly because people will now have to wonder if what they say online will be misconstrued or misunderstood by a government official.” Anil Kalhan, an associate professor of law at Drexel University who works on immigration and international human rights, wrote on Twitter, “This is unnecessarily intrusive and beyond ridiculous.” Facebook said its position had not changed since last year, when it said: “We oppose any efforts to force travelers at the border to turn over their private account information, including passwords.” Along with the social media information, visa applicants will be asked for past passport numbers, phone numbers and email addresses; for records of international travel; whether they have been deported or removed, or violated immigration law, in the past; and whether relatives have been involved in terrorist activities.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Maintaining robust screening standards for visa applicants is a dynamic practice that must adapt to emerging threats,” the State Department said in a statement. “We already request limited contact information, travel history, family member information, and previous addresses from all visa applicants. Collecting this additional information from visa applicants will strengthen our process for vetting these applicants and confirming their identity.” Millions of people each year complete the online application for a nonimmigrant visa, known as the DS-160. It takes about 90 minutes to fill out, according to the department. Advertisement The San Bernardino, Calif., terrorist attack in 2015, which killed 14 people, focused attention on immigrants’ social-media use, after officials acknowledged that they had missed signs of online radicalization in an online-messaging platform used by the husband and wife who carried out the attack. Last year, John F. Kelly, who was then the secretary of homeland security and is now Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, told members of Congress that his department was considering asking visitors for passwords and access to online accounts. “We want to get on their social media, with passwords,” Mr. Kelly told members of the House Homeland Security Committee. “If they don’t want to cooperate, then you don’t come in.” So far, the government has stopped short of demanding passwords, though travelers have reported being asked for them, on a sporadic basis, at airports and other ports of entry. By some measures, the number of international visitors to the United States has begun to slip, although foreign tourism to New York City set a record last year. The new State Department requirements will not take effect immediately. The proposal set off a 60-day period for public comment, which ends on May 29. On Sina Weibo, one of China’s largest social media platforms, several users were critical of the plan. “Does it mean someone’s visa application will likely be rejected if he/she has been critical of the U.S.?” one wrote. “What about your sacred ‘freedom of speech?’” Another user wrote: “We Chinese have learned well enough the lessons to be drawn from isolation. Now it’s America’s turn.” Audrey Jiajia Li contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: 14 Million Visitors a Year Could Face Social-Media Screening by the U.S.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Your Money Adviser  By                     
 ANN CARRNS
 
MARCH 30, 2018
 The Internal Revenue Service is urging taxpayers to do a “paycheck checkup” to make sure they are having their employers withhold the correct amount of taxes. It’s generally advisable to check your withholding from year to year, or when you have a significant life change, like getting married or divorced. But it’s especially important this year, the I.R.S. said, given changes in the tax code after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was approved last year. The law changed tax rates and brackets and limited or ended certain deductions. It also increased the standard deduction, which reduces your taxable income without your having to itemize deductions on your return. In addition, the law removed personal exemptions and increased the child tax credit. The upshot is that you may need to adjust the amount of tax withheld from your paycheck. “People’s withholdings under the old law may not be appropriate for them now,” said David Walters, a certified public accountant with Palisades Hudson Financial Group in Portland, Ore. Reviewing your withholdings, he said, is “more important than usual because of the new tax law changes.” Having too little tax withheld could mean an unpleasant surprise in the form of a larger tax bill — and possibly a penalty — when you file your tax return in 2019. Or you could have more withheld than necessary, resulting in smaller paychecks, and a large refund next year. Advertisement “There are so many changes, it could go either way,” Mr. Walters said. “But the message is, you probably want to check.” Advertisement Sooner is better than later, he said. Since we are now three months into the year, there are fewer pay periods remaining in which to make adjustments. Those who should make a special effort to review their withholdings, the I.R.S. said, include two-income families, people with children, people who itemized deductions in 2017 and people who had either large tax bills or large refunds in 2017. The I.R.S. has updated its online withholding calculator to help with the review. The calculator allows taxpayers to estimate their 2018 income tax, and compare the amount with their current tax withholding, to help them decide if they need to have more or less money withheld from their paycheck. “It’s kind of a handy little thing,” said Cindy Hockenberry, director of tax research and government relations with the National Association of Tax Professionals. Ms. Hockenberry said she had tried the tool and found it “pretty accurate” for her situation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. People who were getting a significant refund before the tax law changes should consider whether they could end up with an even larger one if they don’t revise their paycheck withholdings, she said. The I.R.S. says the average refund last year was just over $2,800. “That’s a good chunk of money,” Ms. Hockenberry said. Many people might prefer to reduce their tax withholdings, she said, and take home more cash in their paycheck for living expenses. The I.R.S. advises that people with particularly complex tax situations — including those owing self-employment tax or the alternative minimum tax, or those who have capital gains and dividends — may need to consult Publication 505, Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax, to check their withholdings instead of using the online calculator. The publication is expected to be updated in “early spring,” the I.R.S. said. It may be wise, Mr. Walters said, for those taxpayers to consult a tax professional to make sure they are on track with proper withholdings. Advertisement Here are some questions and answers about checking your paycheck withholdings: What documents do I need to use the I.R.S. withholding calculator? Before you start, have handy a copy of your current pay stub and your most recent federal income tax return — ideally, your 2017 return, the I.R.S. says. That will help you answer the questions. The calculator asks questions like how often you receive paychecks, how much has been withheld in taxes already this year and whether you contribute to a 401(k) plan. (You don’t have to enter your name or other personally identifiable information to use the tool, and the I.R.S. says it doesn’t save the information entered on the calculator.) How do I make changes to my paycheck withholding? Fill out a new I.R.S. Form W-4, using data provided by the calculator, and give it to your payroll office or human resources department. “You submit it to your employer, not the I.R.S.,” Ms. Hockenberry said. You filled out a W-4 form when you were hired, but you may not have given it a thought since. To increase the amount of money withheld from your paycheck for taxes, you’ll need to reduce the number of “allowances” you claim on the form; to decrease the amount withheld, you’ll increase the allowances claimed. The I.R.S. offers additional tips on its website. Are other online tax withholding tools available? Some commercial preparers and tax software providers, including TurboTax and H & R Block, offer free online withholding calculators that have been updated for 2018. Email: yourmoneyadviser@nytimes.com A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: With New Law, I.R.S. Urges Taxpayers to Review Withholdings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by To the Editor: In his review of Cass Sunstein’s “Impeachment: A Citizen’s Guide” and “Can It Happen Here? Authoritarianism in America” (March 18), Andrew Sullivan concludes with this thought: “Franklin was blunter in forecasting the moment we are now in: He believed that the American experiment in self-government ‘can only end in despotism, as other forms have done before it, when the people become so corrupted as to need despotic government, being incapable of any other.’ You can impeach a president, but you can’t, alas, impeach the people. They voted for the kind of monarchy the American republic was designed, above all else, to resist; and they have gotten one.” Sullivan — and many others — ignore one salient fact when they make such claims about how the November 2016 election went, and it is this: About 40 percent of the eligible electorate did not vote. The resulting count was about evenly split between Clinton and Trump, with the result we all know. This says that about 30 percent of the electorate sufficed to put Trump into office. The American people did not empower or vote for Trump. Apathy did. STEPHEN WARSHAW NEW YORK ♦ To the Editor: Your cover review on impeachment caused me to reflect on what will happen if Russia or a foreign country is successful in not only influencing elections but scanning or penetrating election infrastructure in key districts and states to manipulate voter registration data and change vote totals. If that occurred, Congress might seek to impeach a president whose election victory was rigged. But under our Constitution the vice president (whose election was also rigged) would take office. We need to be able to remove both a president and a vice president who did not honestly win. PAUL FEINER GREENBURGH, N.Y. To the Editor: Andrew Sullivan seems to think he is defying the slow construction, by our president and his allies, of “the kind of authoritarian state that America was actually founded to overthrow.” In fact, he is lending it the kind of support that enabled Trump to get elected and that allows him to continue his destruction of our democracy. By this I mean that Sullivan is disparaging the concerns of the millions of citizens who voted for and continue to sustain our president. It is incredible to me, a lifelong progressive Democrat, that so many working men and women of this country are now dyed-in-the-wool Republicans, but this is a fact that needs to be understood and dealt with. They have felt ignored and belittled by the Democratic Party for too long. And this is exactly what Sullivan endorses when he implies that we are now “without a virtuous citizenry.” Our politics and our polity will only be rescued when we all stop assuming that those who disagree with us are stupid, ignorant and/or immoral. We must leave the bitterness behind and come together with mutual respect, seeking understanding and ready to compromise. It is not too late. BRIAN ZACK PRINCETON, N.J. To the Editor: As Mailer’s biographer, I can attest to embarrassing material anyone wishing to now blacken his memory could draw on, but Roy Cohn’s involvement in Mailer’s move from his longtime publisher, Little, Brown, to Random House, and his relations with Roy Cohn generally, are not among them. Edward Sorel’s “The Literati: It’s Embarrassing to Sell Your Soul, but It Pays Well” (Feb. 25) alleges that Cohn engineered a $4 million contract with Random House for Mailer. The contract was not close to this amount. Mailer did get the interest-free loan from Si Newhouse, who owned Random House, and fully repaid it. J. MICHAEL LENNON WESTPORT, MASS. To the Editor: Edward Sorel omits the most telling line in the whole episode. At the time, I was writing my biography of Mailer, and he and I were able to buy what Sorel calls “the best house in Provincetown.” Norman was broke. When I objected to a real-estate partnership with Roy Cohn, Norman came back with what may be the definitive Mailerism, responding to Cohn’s promise to get an interest-free loan from Si Newhouse by telling me, “It’s about time I had a patron.” PETER MANSO BERKELEY, CALIF.       The Times welcomes letters from readers. Letters for publication should include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. Letters should be addressed to The Editor, The New York Times Book Review, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. The email address is books@nytimes.com. Letters may be edited for length and clarity. We regret that because of the large volume of mail received, we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By David Reich In a Sunday Review essay last weekend, David Reich, a geneticist at Harvard, argued that science is changing how we think about “race” and urged a candid discussion of the findings, whatever they may be. Hundreds of readers left comments, many expressing worry about the possibility that the results could be misinterpreted or nefariously applied. Here are Dr. Reich’s responses to some of the comments. — The Editors Unfortunately, science has always been misused. From slavery, to eugenics, to economic Darwinism, to anti-abortion politics, the latest scientific knowledge has been employed in the service of evil. The idea of forestalling such efforts is valiant but fruitless. Science must continue its pursuit of truth, and scientists, as always, must speak out when their discoveries are exploited for harmful purposes. — Syfredrick, Providence, R.I. We scientists always need to keep in mind our social responsibilities and to think about whether what we are doing has positive or negative effects on our world. With respect to today’s study of human variation, I am optimistic — I believe that it has been socially positive. It is making every racist view of the world untenable. In my just-published book, I explain how the ancient DNA revolution — which has provided far greater power to reveal what happened in our deep past than what was available before — has done far more to undermine racist beliefs than to support them. As I wrote in the final paragraph of my book: The study of human variation has not always been a force for good. In Nazi Germany, someone with my expertise at interpreting genetic data would have been tasked with categorizing people by ancestry had that been possible with the science of the 1930s. But in our time, the findings from ancient DNA leave little solace for racist or nationalistic misinterpretation. In this field, the pursuit of truth for its own sake has overwhelmingly had the effect of exploding stereotypes, undercutting prejudice, and highlighting the connections among peoples not previously known to be related. I am optimistic that the direction of my work and that of my colleagues is to promote understanding, and I welcome our opportunity to do our best by the people, ancient and modern, whom we have been given the privilege to study. My book also gives concrete examples of how it is no longer so easy to twist science to support long-cherished stereotypes because ancient DNA is now debunking the stories that used to be made up about the nature of human variation. As I wrote there: The Nazi ideology of a “pure” Indo-European-speaking Aryan race with deep roots in Germany, traceable through artifacts of the Corded Ware culture, has been shattered by the finding that the people who used these artifacts came from a mass migration from the Russian steppe, a place that German nationalists would have despised as a source. The Hindutva ideology that there was no major contribution to Indian culture from migrants from outside South Asia is undermined by the fact that approximately half of the ancestry of Indians today is derived from multiple waves of mass migration from Iran and the Eurasian steppe within the last five thousand years. Similarly, the idea that the Tutsis in Rwanda and Burundi have ancestry from West Eurasian farmers that Hutus do not — an idea that has been incorporated into arguments for genocide — is nonsense. We now know that nearly every group living today is the product of repeated population mixtures that have occurred over thousands and tens of thousands of years. Mixing is in human nature, and no one population is — or could be — pure. Having been immersed in the ancient DNA revolution for the past 10 years, I am confident that anyone who pays attention to what it is finding cannot come away feeling affirmed in racist beliefs. My childhood guesses about who we are and how we’re related to one another — and about the nature of differences among people — have been shown to be wrong again and again. As Hamlet says to his friend in Shakespeare’s play, “There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio/Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.” And that’s what the ancient DNA revolution is reminding us repeatedly. Anyone who thinks they can guess what the nature of human variation is based on the data we had available to us before these breakthroughs is wrong. I think the most important point in the article, that could’ve been emphasized a bit more, is that differences in individuals are far greater than that of populations. When those who use the stats of the average I.Q. justify that for racist ideologies, they seem to fail to recognize the fact that there is massive variance from the average of all races. As well as the fact that institutional discrimination also has a negative impact on I.Q. of populations, which when those factors are controlled (education, economic upbringing, even being adopted and raised by parents who are of a different race), leads to even less substantial difference in even the average I.Q. of populations. Differences in individuals vary far more widely than populations. Especially with intelligence. — Brian, Washington Indeed, we have known for almost a half-century that for the great majority of human traits shaped by genetics, there is far greater variation among individuals than populations. This means that when a teacher looks around a classroom of students of diverse “races,” she or he shouldn’t see them as members of fundamentally different groups of people. “Race” has trivial predictive power about an individual person’s biological capabilities. Even if there are slight average differences among groups of humans, individuals from any group are capable of excelling in any realm. “It is important to face whatever science will reveal without prejudging the outcome and with the confidence that we can be mature enough to handle any findings.” Fat chance. What if many stereotypes are, in fact, confirmed by genetic research? What is the likelihood that ideologues of the left and right will have the maturity to handle it? Nonexistent. — BarrowK, North Carolina It is likely that a few stereotypes will be validated by findings from genetics — even if it is also certain that a great majority will be disproved. When this happens, the findings will certainly be used in sound bites by people who, for whatever reason, need to believe that racist views of the world have been correct all along. Well-meaning people need to prepare for this possibility, which is exactly the issue I tried to grapple with in my article. So how should we handle the eventuality that for a few traits, average differences among populations arising from genetics will be discovered? I do not think that the right approach is to pretend that scientific research has shown there can be no meaningful average genetic differences among human populations, because that message is contradicted by scientific facts. The key point is that whatever science finds should not affect the way we behave toward one another. Whatever small average differences across groups might exist (and genetic studies have already made it clear that average differences across populations are much less than those between individuals), we are members of a single species, all of whom must be given every opportunity to flourish in every realm.  I agree with the gist of what is being said here. I’m not sure, though, that we are prepared to have this conversation. For several years I taught a segment of a course on “intelligence.” It was challenging and interesting. We explored controversies, and we raised all the questions about population differences. We read not only scientific treatments of the notion, but we also read poetry and fiction that explored the nature and value of “intelligence.” I stopped teaching it recently. It’s just too risky given the current environment in the universities.  I appreciate the courage here, and I hope the intellectual environment shifts so that we can properly prepare ourselves for this discussion. — Nathan, San Marcos, Calif. From my point of view, it should be possible for everyone to hold in their heads the following six truths: 1. “Race” is fundamentally a social category — not a biological one — as anthropologists have shown. 2. There are clear genetic contributors to many traits, including behavior. 3. Present-day human populations, which often but not always are correlated to today’s “race” categories, have in a number of instances been largely isolated from one another for tens of thousands of years. These long separations have provided adequate opportunity for the frequencies of genetic variations to change. 4. Genetic variations are likely to affect behavior and cognition just as they affect other traits, even though we know that the average genetic influences on behavior and cognition are strongly affected by upbringing and are likely to be more modest than genetic influences on bodily traits or disease. 5. The genetic variations that influence behavior in one population will almost certainly have an effect on behavior in others populations, even if the ways those genetic variations manifest in each population may be very different. Given that all genetically determined traits differ somewhat among populations, we should expect that there will be differences in the average effects, including in traits like behavior. 6. To insist that no meaningful average differences among human populations are possible is harmful. It is perceived as misleading, even patronizing, by the general public. And it encourages people not to trust the honesty of scholars and instead to embrace theories that are not scientifically grounded and often racist. In short, I think everyone can understand that very modest differences across human population in the genetic influences on behavior and cognition are to be expected. And I think everyone can understand that even if we do not yet have any idea about what the difference are, we do not need to be worried about what we will find because we can already be sure that any differences will be small (far smaller than those among individuals). As a society, we are already committed to giving everyone a full opportunity for self-realization — regardless of the particular hand each person is dealt from the deck of life. Since we are already committed to this, accommodating any slight differences in the average genetic influences on traits that might eventually be found should only be a little extra work to handle. David Reich is a professor of genetics at Harvard and the author of the book “Who We Are and How We Got Here: Ancient DNA and the New Science of the Human Past.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  OpinionDavid Reich Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:53 P.M. E.D.T.
 HONG KONG —  China's Huawei Technologies [HWT.UL], the world's third-largest smartphone maker, posted a 28 percent rise in 2017 net profit, driven by cost controls and a solid performance in its home market. Shenzhen-based Huawei saw 2017 net profit rising to 47.5 billion yuan ($7.3 billion), a big rebound from last year's 0.4 percent increase. The outlook for Huawei, the world's No. 3 smartphone maker, is overshadowed by strong competition in China's handset market, although the company has made strides in Europe against rivals Samsung Electronics and Apple. Revenue grew 15.7 percent to 603.6 billion yuan, in line with what the company had earlier flagged, marking its slowest growth in four years. Huawei has vowed to focus on improving profit after posting the slowest profit growth in five years in 2016 as its thin-margin smartphone business weighed down profit growth. (Reporting by Sijia Jiang and Farah Master; Editing by Sunil Nair) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JACK NICASMARCH 30, 2018
 SAN FRANCISCO — Two days after Donald J. Trump won the 2016 election, executives at Google consoled their employees in an all-staff meeting broadcast around the world. “There is a lot of fear within Google,” said Sundar Pichai, the company’s chief executive, according to a video of the meeting viewed by The New York Times. When asked by an employee if there was any silver lining to Mr. Trump’s election, the Google co-founder Sergey Brin said, “Boy, that’s a really tough one right now.” Ruth Porat, the finance chief, said Mr. Trump’s victory felt “like a ton of bricks dropped on my chest.” Then she instructed members of the audience to hug the person next to them. Sixteen months later, Google’s parent company, Alphabet, has most likely saved billions of dollars in taxes on its overseas cash under a new tax law signed by Mr. Trump. Alphabet also stands to benefit from the Trump administration’s looser regulations for self-driving cars and delivery drones, as well as from proposed changes to the trade pact with Mexico and Canada that would limit Google’s liability for user content on its sites. Once one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal opponents, Silicon Valley’s technology industry has increasingly found common ground with the White House. When Mr. Trump was elected, tech executives were largely up in arms over a leader who espoused policies on immigration and other issues that were antithetical to their companies’ values. Now, many of the industry’s executives are growing more comfortable with the president and how his economic agenda furthers their business interests, even as many of their employees continue to disagree with Mr. Trump on social issues. Advertisement The relationship remains bumpy. Mr. Trump lashed out at Amazon on Twitter on Thursday, accusing the e-commerce giant of evading taxes. (Amazon said it had saved $789 million under the tax law Mr. Trump signed.) The president is also expected to sign legislation,  passed by the Senate last week, that would strengthen policing of sex trafficking online — a bill that internet companies once opposed because they worried it would make them liable for content posted by their users. Advertisement Yet quietly, the tech industry has warmed to the White House, especially as companies including Alphabet, Apple and Intel have benefited from the Trump administration’s policies. Those include lowering corporate taxes, encouraging development of new wireless technology like 5G and, so far, ignoring calls to break up the tech giants. Mr. Trump’s tougher stance on China may also help ward off industry rivals, with the president squashing a hostile bid to acquire the chip maker Qualcomm this month. And Mr. Trump let die an Obama-era rule that required many tech start-ups to give some workers more overtime pay. Mr. Trump “has been great for business and really, really good for tech,” said Gary Shapiro, who leads the Consumer Technology Association, the largest American tech trade group, with more than 2,200 members including Apple, Google, Amazon and Facebook. Mr. Shapiro said that he had voted for Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump’s opponent, in 2016, but that he and many tech executives had come around on Mr. Trump. While they disagree with him on immigration and the environment, they have found areas where their interests align, like deregulation and investment in internet infrastructure. “This isn’t Hitler or Mussolini here,” Mr. Shapiro said. And even though the president’s new tariffs on steel and aluminum could hurt American businesses and consumers, “disagreement in one area does not mean we cannot work together in others,” Mr. Shapiro said. “Everyone who is married knows that.” Mr. Trump himself has taken to naming tech companies he says are on his side. After Apple took advantage of the new tax law in January to bring back most of the $252 billion cash hoard that it had parked overseas, the company said it would make a $350 billion “contribution to the U.S. economy” over the next five years. That prompted Mr. Trump to suggest he had made good on a campaign pledge to get Apple to bring jobs back to the United States. “You know, for $350 million, you could build a beautiful plant. But for $350 billion, they’re going to build a lot of plants,” the president told members of Congress last month. Mr. Trump said he had called Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, to personally thank him. Advertisement In fact, Apple has no plans to build a plant in the United States. The company is uneasy with Mr. Trump’s invoking it to signify how his policies are working, according to a person close to Apple who was not authorized to speak publicly. Apple has not, however, publicly corrected the president. Mr. Trump has also stayed quiet on the controversy engulfing Facebook over user privacy, while other politicians have called for more regulations after revelations that the British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Cambridge Analytica used that data to aid Mr. Trump’s campaign. Michael Kratsios, the White House’s deputy chief technology officer, said in an interview that while Mr. Trump and Silicon Valley had their differences, “in places where we do see eye to eye, I think we’re achieving extraordinary success.” Dean Garfield, head of the Information Technology Industry Council, a 102-year-old advocacy group that represents the biggest tech firms, said his members walked a tightrope, supporting and opposing the president on different issues. Lately, he said, “we have reached balance in the tightrope.” The equilibrium marks a turnabout from what had been a testy relationship between Mr. Trump and the tech sector. On the campaign trail in 2016, Mr. Trump was so critical of tech companies that Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, once joked he might send Mr. Trump to space in a rocket. 
            The @washingtonpost loses money (a deduction) and gives owner @JeffBezos power to screw public on low taxation of @Amazon! Big tax shelter         
            Finally trashed by @realDonaldTrump. Will still reserve him a seat on the Blue Origin rocket. #sendDonaldtospace https://t.co/9OypFoxZk3  Some tech executives have since disagreed with Mr. Trump on social issues. Mr. Cook emailed staff last June to say he had unsuccessfully lobbied the president to remain in the Paris climate accords. In November, Microsoft sued the administration to protect a law that blocks deportation of young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. More than 100 companies, including Google, Facebook and Uber, filed a brief supporting California’s lawsuit on that issue. Even so, tech executives worked to build a relationship with the president, with some meeting him at Trump Tower before his inauguration and again at the White House in June. While in Washington for the second meeting, Mr. Cook and Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief executive, also dined with Jared Kushner, the president’s senior adviser and son-in-law, and Ivanka Trump at the couple’s Washington home, according to a person briefed on the meeting who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about it. This month, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin visited Apple’s headquarters. 
            Glad to visit @Apple HQ with @tim_cook. Thank you for your commitment to invest 350B in USA! #TaxCutsJobsAct pic.twitter.com/TasRA55smG  Silicon Valley has found plenty to like about the Trump presidency. In September, tech giants including Facebook and Microsoft teamed up with the administration to pledge $500 million to computer science education. Amazon, Microsoft and Google are also eyeing the administration as a potential customer as Mr. Trump pushes to modernize the government’s digital infrastructure. But Silicon Valley’s favorite thing about Mr. Trump is almost certainly his new tax code. Many tech companies lobbied for corporate tax reform for years before Mr. Trump signed the new tax bill. Advertisement Tech giants immediately reaped the benefits. Under the new rules, Apple saved $43.7 billion in taxes, according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan research group. Apple then announced the $350 billion “contribution” to the economy over five years. Most of the tally was previously planned spending with American suppliers and a $38 billion tax payment on its overseas cash. But Apple also said it planned to hire 20,000 new workers, invest in new data centers and another domestic campus, and increase a fund for innovative American manufacturers to $5 billion from $1 billion. It also gave employees $2,500 bonuses. The president was quick to tweet the news. 
            I promised that my policies would allow companies like Apple to bring massive amounts of money back to the United States. Great to see Apple follow through as a result of TAX CUTS. Huge win for American workers and the USA! https://t.co/OwXVUyLOb1  The shifting relationship between Silicon Valley and Mr. Trump appears to have upset some tech employees. A Facebook page called “Angry Googler,” with nearly 1,000 followers, has been dedicated to criticizing Google for any sign it was cooperating with the president. “Not happy about Google pulling a 180 and jumping into bed with Trump? Same here,” said the “About” section of the page, which suggests it is run by a Google employee. This month, the page posted an article about Google helping the Defense Department analyze drone footage. “We’ve gone from organizing the world’s information to … optimizing weapons of war,” the page said. Messages to the account were not returned. Google declined to comment. Some tech firms remain discomfited about appearing as the president’s allies. Last month, Rob Goldman, Facebook’s vice president of advertising, played down Russia’s impact on the 2016 election after the Justice Department charged 13 Russians with trying to subvert its outcome, including by using Facebook. Mr. Trump retweeted Mr. Goldman approvingly. 
            The Fake News Media never fails. Hard to ignore this fact from the Vice President of Facebook Ads, Rob Goldman! https://t.co/XGC7ynZwYJ  Facebook was uncomfortable with that association with the president, said a person close to the company who was not authorized to speak publicly. Two days later, Facebook’s policy chief, Joel Kaplan, distanced the company from Mr. Goldman’s comments. “The special counsel has issued its indictments, and nothing we found contradicts their conclusions,” he said in a statement. “Any suggestion otherwise is wrong.” Kitty Bennett contributed research from Washington. Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicas. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Silicon Valley,  Wary of Trump,  Warms to Him.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:15 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  The maddest of Marches is winding down, the college basketball season now headed into April. All those upsets, crazy finishes and stellar performances have brought us to San Antonio, where a Cinderella and its telegenic nun join three power programs in the Final Four. Based on the way the bracket has gone so far, don't be surprised if there is more madness in store. To get you ready, we've got a rundown of the teams, the top players, the coaches and other tidbits about this year's Final Four. ___ THE TEAMS Villanova. The Wildcats shoot 3s like no other, play suffocating defense and have that look — the one they had winning a national title two years ago. Kansas. The other No. 1 seed to get through, the offensively-gifted Jayhawks are back in San Antonio, where Bill Self won his only title in 2008. Advertisement Michigan. Stingy D or raining 3s, these scrappy Wolverines find ways to win. Loyola-Chicago. Sister Jean gets much of the attention, but the Ramblers have rambled into the Final Four with a free-flowing, nothing-to-lose style. Advertisement ___ TOP PLAYERS Jalen Brunson, Villanova. The Wildcats' unassuming, unquestionable leader is racking up player of the year awards — and possibly a second national championship. Devonte' Graham, Kansas. Similar attributes as Brunson, only with an added dash of dynamic-ness. Moritz Wagner, Michigan. The big German is crafty inside, can step out to hit 3s, can guard multiple positions — a matchup nightmare. Clayton Custer, Loyola. The sharpshooting guard gets mistaken for a non-player off the court, and is often the best in the game on it. ___ KEY CONTRIBUTORS Cameron Krutwig, Loyola. The burly freshman gives the little Ramblers the presence they need inside at both ends. Malik Newman, Kansas. The athletic sophomore has become dynamic option No. 2 to Graham. Mikal Bridges, Villanova. He and Brunson may be the Final Four's best 1-2 punch. Charles Matthews, Michigan. His late-season emergence is a big reason the Wolverines reached San Antonio. ___ THE COACHES Bill Self, Kansas. This may be the best coaching job of his Hall of Fame career. Jay Wright, Villanova. The coolest — and best-dressed — coach in college basketball has changed the game and put the Wildcats in position for a second national title in three years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. John Beilein, Michigan. Redefined his team and himself by turning the Wolverines into one of the nation's top defensive teams. Advertisement Porter Moser, Loyola. A nation of college basketball fans are learning what everyone at Loyola already knew: Moser can flat-out coach. ___ NUMBERS 4 — No. 11 seeds to reach the Final Four: LSU (1986), George Mason (2006), VCU (2011) and Loyola (2018). 29 — Years since Michigan's lone NCAA title. 43.2 — Percentage of Michigan's shots taken from 3-point range. 55 — Years since Loyola's lone NCAA championship. 77.2 — Shooting percent of Kansas big man Udoka Azubuike, leading the nation. 86.6 — Points per game by Villanova, tops in Division I. ___ FAMOUS ALUMNI Michigan: Actors James Earl Jones, Gilda Radner, Lucy Liu; H&R Block founder Henry R. Bloch; iPod inventor Tony Fadell; Walgreen's founder Charles Walgreen; playwright Arthur Miller; Nobel Prize winner Stanley Cohen; singer Madonna; NFL player Tom Brady; MLB player Derek Jeter; President Gerald Ford. Villanova: Actors Bradley Cooper and Maria Bello; country singer Toby Keith; singer Jim Croce; second lady of the United States Jill Biden; Pennsylvania Gov. Ed Rendell; Connecticut Gov. John G. Rowland; NFL Hall of Famer Howie Long. Kansas: Actors Paul Rudd, Jason Sudeikis, Scott Bakula and Mandy Patinkin; NBA Hall of Famer Wilt Chamberlain; NFL Hall of Famer Gale Sayers; Kansas Sen. Bob Dole; FBI Director Clarence Kelley; basketball inventor Dr. James Naismith; golfer Gary Woodland. Loyola: Actors Bob Newhart, Leslie David Baker and Jennifer Morrison; Chicago Bears owner George Halas Jr.; Chicago Cubs owner Todd Ricketts; Disturbed singer David Draiman; Smashing Pumpkins and Perfect Circle guitarist James Iha; Dr. Scholl's founder William Scholl; US Secretary of Commerce William M. Daley. ___ This story has been corrected to show that LSU was the 11-seed that made the Final Four in 1986, not Louisville, which beat LSU in the Final Four and won the national title. Advertisement ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 

 Sam Sifton
 
 
WHAT TO COOK
MARCH 30, 2018
 Good morning. For a lot of us this will be a big weekend for cooking, what with Passover getting underway tonight, and Easter following on Sunday. So good luck with your legs of lamb, your big smoked hams, your brisket and matzo brei. Here’s hoping your hard-boiled eggs are perfect, your haroseth truffles beautiful, your lemon sweet rolls with cream-cheese icing sun-kissed and soft. We are here for all who need us at NYT Cooking, and offer recipes appropriate to whatever faith you have, including none, as some among us celebrate the rise and promise of spring. But you don’t need cook out of the paschal playbook, if you don’t want to. Samin Nosrat, for instance, has a new recipe I think you’ll want to try, based partly on Hawaiian butter mochi, but also on her experience making canelés, those wee little caramelized pastries from Bordeaux with a gooey center. Samin calls her sweets brown-butter mochi cakes (above), and wrote about the process of discovering them in The Times this week. Brown-butter mochi cakes prove to be the best kind of recipe, the sort that leaves you wondering how something so complex and delicious turns out to be so simple to make. And Sunday isn’t just Easter, remember. It’s also April Fools’ Day, and the best day of the year to make and serve and yap about Rozanne Gold’s insane and actually delicious recipe for a cherry cola-chocolate-mayonnaise-sauerkraut cake. (Read the notes that follow the recipe! People dig this one!) If I weren’t smoking lamb on Sunday and making like the Canlis brothers with their Lake Union salad, I might have turned toward shrimp burgers for dinner — maybe you could in my place. Or maybe Korean grilled beef lettuce wraps? Or a Russian salmon pie! Advertisement Thousands of recipes to consider cooking this weekend are anyway at NYT Cooking. Go browse among them, the way people did in the age of malls. You’ll need to sign up for a subscription to do so, yes. But I think you’ll find that worth your while.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. We’ll be standing by to help if anything goes wrong along the way, either with your cooking or with the technology we use to support our activities. Just reach out to cookingcare@nytimes.com. And we will get back to you. Advertisement Now, some distance from mustard, good china and bitter herbs, I think you probably ought to read “In the Shadow of Statues,” Mitch Landrieu’s memoir and manifesto about his life as mayor of New Orleans. (Here’s the transcript of the speech he gave last year, on the occasion of his removal of the last of several statues in New Orleans honoring Confederate soldiers.) In country music news, Jon Caramanica turned me on to Dillon Carmichael’s “Old Songs Like That.” I’m paying that along. And finally, on the subject of this weekend’s Easter festivities, my colleague Margaux Laskey sent me deep down an internet rabbit hole of cross cupcakes and empty tomb cakes and Resurrection Biscuits. Whoa! Happy holidays to everyone celebrating, and a great weekend to all who are not. I’ll be back on Sunday. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 10:48 A.M. E.D.T.
 RALEIGH, N.C. —  North Carolina is again an attractive location for big out-of-state corporations. The state no longer sits squarely in the crosshairs of culture wars over transgender rights. College basketball tournament games are back, after a one-year hiatus. But the saga of the state's so-called bathroom bill hasn't been forgotten, and many Republican incumbents who passed House Bill 2 in 2016 are being targeted this election year, with the flap over the law still an issue. In a compromise reached a year ago this week, Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper and the Republican-controlled General Assembly approved a partial repeal of HB 2, which did enough to remove the issue from national newscasts, to the relief of people from all sides. "The issue is behind us in a lot of ways," said Bob Orr, a former state Supreme Court justice. "I'm just glad that's one less unpleasant issue that people are talking about." Advertisement But Democrats seeking to retake control of the legislature — along with at least one Republican primary challenger — hope to benefit from anger over the law and its aftermath. The situation adds to the GOP's challenges in districts where Democrats are already energized in opposition to President Donald Trump and unhappy with state Republican policies on taxes, school choice expansion and the environment. Advertisement "HB 2 was a very dangerous bill, and it got my attention," said Democrat Marcia Morgan, a lesbian and first-time candidate running this fall for the Wilmington-area House seat held by Republican Rep. Ted Davis. One of HB 2's chief sponsors, Sen. Dan Bishop of Charlotte, faces a GOP primary in early May against Beth Monaghan of Charlotte, who has a gay son. Bishop "abandoned Republican values" of limited government, individual dignity and equal rights, said Monaghan. "I just have too much pride in my state of North Carolina to not do something about this senator." Unseating Bishop would be difficult in the GOP-leaning district encompassing south Charlotte and bedroom communities outside North Carolina's largest city. He was a longtime county commissioner and has a big campaign cash advantage. In an interview, Bishop said he can't imagine Republicans in his district will be interested in "that unpleasant controversy that has been put to rest." Bishop said he plans to focus his campaign on the GOP's tax cuts, controlled spending and the state's improved business climate. While HB 2 "is dwelled upon by my primary opponent," Bishop said, "I'm not hearing that as the top thing on people's minds." But Democrats believe Bishop and many other Republicans in competitive districts with plenty of independent voters are vulnerable because of what the law did and its perception as discriminatory. Republicans said HB 2 gave privacy and protection to children using restrooms and locker rooms. The law said transgender people had to use public bathrooms corresponding to their birth certificates, and barred non-discrimination ordinances by all local governments.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A national backlash affected thousands of jobs as concerts and conventions were canceled. The NCAA moved sports championships out of North Carolina, and the 2017 NBA All-Star Game set for Charlotte went elsewhere, although it's now returning in 2019. Advertisement "In especially urban and suburban areas ... what HB 2 did is kill the Republican brand," said Morgan Jackson, a political consultant for Cooper and state Democrats' legislative races. "It is still a very salient issue with swing voters." HB 2 and its aftermath are particularly sensitive to Charlotte. The law got passed in March 2016 response to the Charlotte City Council approving an ordinance expanding its antidiscrimination protections to LGBT people using public accommodations. It was GOP Gov. Pat McCrory, a former mayor of Charlotte, who signed it into law. McCrory and Democrat Jennifer Roberts, the mayor at the time the ordinance was passed, both paid a price. McCrory narrowly lost his re-election bid in 2016 to Cooper, who made HB 2 a big issue. Gay rights groups also spent money and time seeking McCrory's defeat. Then last fall, Roberts lost in the Democratic mayoral primary, despite her support from state and national LGBT organizations. "The two biggest public faces of it are no longer with us — the mayor and the governor," said state GOP Executive Director Dallas Woodhouse, who downplays the role of HB 2 this year. Voters, he said, "were sick seeing it on TV every night. So now that it's gone away, they want it to stay away." Still, a lot is riding on these elections. The partial repeal said local governments can resume enacting new ordinances expanding LGBT protections for public accommodations in December 2020. Republicans could delay that date if they keep veto-proof majorities. But if Democrats win six more Senate seats or four more House seats to end the GOP's super-majorities — or take even more seats, regaining control of both chambers, they might be able to revisit the issue in their favor. Gay rights groups didn't like the repeal bill because it still barred local governments from expanding protections for transgender people. Matt Hirschy, interim executive director of Equality North Carolina, said he sees more impassioned candidates than ever on the subject of advancing LGBT rights. But he acknowledges the public's malaise over the "bathroom bill" requires a different strategy than just attacking HB 2. Advertisement "There's a lot of general fatigue about the word 'bathroom,'" he said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MARC TRACY and ZACH SCHONBRUNMARCH 30, 2018
 TIME AND TV 6:09 p.m. Eastern, TBS WHAT TO EXPECT These teams known for their offense should probably be known for their defense. Fans have long adored Coach John Beilein’s Wolverines teams for their gorgeous sets in which the ball travels from player to player with speed and grace. They have been similarly taken by the offense of the Final Four’s most improbable contestant, Loyola-Chicago, the Missouri Valley Conference tournament champion. The Ramblers’ starting five players are generally capable of shooting from any spot on the floor. But the calling card of both teams is really the defense. No wonder one Loyola-Chicago assistant coach said Michigan’s field-goal percentage would be crucial in determining the game’s outcome. Outsiders might think that Loyola-Chicago, with its No. 11 seed, is playing with house money, or that it might not expect to defeat the third-seeded Wolverines, who won the Big Ten tournament title. They should know that is not how the Ramblers see it. “It obviously keeps the chip on our shoulder as throughout the whole process we have been the underdog every single game,” said Clayton Custer, a redshirt junior who transferred from Iowa State. But, Custer said: “We don’t think of ourselves as that much of a Cinderella because we have had such a good year this year. We have been winning games all year, so we think we belong on this stage.” TIME AND TV 8:49 p.m., TBS WHAT TO EXPECT A lot of scoring. Villanova is six 3-pointers from tying the N.C.A.A. single-season record set by Virginia Military Institute in 2007 (442), while Kansas has also broken its program record for 3-pointers made this season — by nearly 70. The spread-the-floor style of both teams should not be surprising; Kansas Coach Bill Self said he adopted Villanova’s small-ball philosophy years ago, when the Wildcats were winning with four guards on the floor. This time, it’s Kansas that starts four guards around a strong rim protector (Udoka Azubuike). The Jayhawks will rely on Azubuike (if he can stay out of foul trouble) to limit the Wildcats’ ability to penetrate and find shooters around the perimeter. Villanova has yet to face a tight game down the stretch since it beat Providence in overtime in the Big East tournament championship game. The Wildcats have won each of their four games in the N.C.A.A. tournament by double digits, and it has been their defense that is quietly dominating, holding opponents to 39.4 percent shooting in the last nine games. But Villanova has not faced a backcourt as talented as Kansas’ Devonte’ Graham and Malik Newman. The latter scored 32 points in the team’s round-of-8 win over No. 2-seeded Duke and might be the hottest shooter left in the tournament. Kansas also has some mojo in this building: It won its only national title under Self in the Alamodome in 2008. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018
 CHICAGO — Scott Foster thought it was going to be just another night. Then Foster, a 36-year-old accountant, signed a contract, put on his goaltender gear and waited in Chicago’s locker room. Then he got into the game. Foster, a former college goalie, was pressed into action when Chicago lost Anton Forsberg and Collin Delia to injuries, and he stopped all seven shots he faced over the final 14 minutes of the Blackhawks’ 6-2 victory over the playoff-bound Winnipeg Jets on Thursday. “This is something that no one can ever take away from me,” Foster said. “It’s something that I can go home and tell my kids and they can tell their friends.” Foster is part of a crew of recreational goaltenders who staff Chicago’s home games in case of emergencies for either team. But it usually just means a nice dinner and a night in the press box watching the world’s best players compete at hockey’s highest level. Advertisement Nothing at all like this. “What a moment,” Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville said with a chuckle. Forsberg was expected to start, but he got hurt during a “pregame ritual,” according to Quenneville. Delia, who was just recalled from the minors Wednesday, then stopped 25 of 27 shots in his N.H.L. debut before he was helped off the ice with 14:01 left after he cramped up. Advertisement Enter Foster, a married father of two who lives in nearby Oak Park and plays in two rec leagues. After a short warm-up, the game resumed and Foster got a big cheer from the crowd of 21,839 when he denied Tyler Myers for his first save about a minute after he came in. “The initial shock happened when I had to dress. I think you just kind of blackout after that,” Foster said. Backed by chants of “Foster! Foster!” and more loud ovations, he made another stop on Myers and turned away Paul Stastny and Dustin Byfuglien in the final minutes. When it was over, the Blackhawks poured onto the ice and mobbed Foster in the net.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “He was great,” defenseman Brent Seabrook said. “I think the boys were doing whatever they could to help him out. He made some big saves. Fun night.” The Jets had won six in a row and were trying to clinch home-ice advantage for the first round of the playoffs. But even they were moved by what happened. “It’s tough for anybody to come in 50 minutes into a hockey game,” coach Paul Maurice said. “A great moment for him.” Carolina Hurricanes equipment manager Jorge Alves became the first emergency goalie to play in a game in the modern era last season. He closed out the final 7.6 seconds of a 3-1 loss to Tampa Bay. The N.H.L. adjusted its rules last summer to mandate that teams have an emergency goalie present for all home games ready to fill in for either team — setting the stage for Foster’s most competitive action since 20 minutes in relief with Western Michigan University in the 2005-06 season. “A few hours ago I was sitting on the computer typing on a 10-key, and now I’m standing in front of you guys having just finished 14½ minutes of N.H.L. hockey,” he cracked. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Finding a reliable contractor is crucial for any home improvement project. But what do you do if you get a bad one? By KAYA LATERMANMARCH 30, 2018
 Nobody ever intends to hire a shoddy contractor, but it often doesn’t take much for a home renovation project to go awry. The potential woes are many: poor workmanship, countless delays and a bill that seems to keep growing. Or worse yet, a contractor who takes your money, doesn’t finish the job and then disappears. Complaints filed against home improvement contractors rank among the top five complaint categories year after year in New York City, according to the city’s Department of Consumer Affairs. In 2017, there were 1,116 complaints filed against contractors and $1.5 million in fines issued. “There’s been a slight decrease in the number of complaints since 2016, but it’s an ongoing problem,” said Lorelei Salas, the consumer affairs commissioner. So what can a homeowner do to find a good contractor — and there are many hardworking, skilled tradesmen out there — and avoid a renovation nightmare? Advertisement To start, familiarize yourself with the regulations in your area: Laws regarding home improvement aren’t uniform and can differ by state and municipality. And make sure you are working with a licensed professional on any home renovation job that costs more than $500. Because, as Ms. Salas cautioned, if you don’t hire a licensed contractor, “there are very few remedies.” After getting recommendations from friends and neighbors who have used contractors in recent years, call or go online to the appropriate consumer affairs department to see if those contractors are licensed. Home improvement contractors working in the five boroughs need a license from city’s Department of Consumer Affairs, while general contractors are licensed through the Department of Buildings. But home improvement contractors on Long Island get their licenses through the county, and New Jersey licenses are issued by the state. Do some digging and find out if there have been any complaints filed against a recommended contractor. City residents can call 311 and be connected to a consumer affairs official, but if you are a data hound, you can tap directly into the city’s Open Data system. (Search for Consumer Affairs under “Datasets by Agency” and you will find documents that list charges, complaints, inspections and violations by contractors.) Long Island residents should call the consumer affairs bureaus in both Nassau and Suffolk counties when checking licenses. A contractor with a bad track record in one county can easily get a license in the other county and continue working. “Contractor licensing and home remodeling is kind of like the Wild West,” said Adam G. Singer, an attorney specializing in consumer protection with offices in Manhattan, Rockland and Westchester counties. Advertisement Once you know a contractor is licensed, you should do some online research, but don’t just read reviews. Check the Better Business Bureau to see if a complaint has been filed there. Search using legal research software like LexisNexis to check if there are, or have been, any lawsuits filed against the contractor. Potential red flags include a homeowner suing a business for breach of contract or a subcontractor seeking a large amount of overtime or back pay. Why do such a deep background check? There is a skilled labor shortage in the country, making it harder to find high-quality tradesmen available for work, said Dan Taddei, director of education and certification at the National Association of the Remodeling Industry, an industry trade group. A recent survey by the Associated General Contractors of America found that many general contracting firms are having a hard time finding skilled tradesman to fill open positions. As Mr. Taddei said, “The good ones are busy, so many times they’re not looking for more work.” The push by educators to emphasize the importance of a four-year college to all students and the disappearance of the traditional high school shop class over the past several decades, among other things, have had a “negative impact” on the industry, Mr. Taddei said. And sometimes, a skilled tradesman who can work wonders with his hands can simply be an ineffective business owner. “We’ve seen great tradesmen with great reputations get in over their heads because they take on too many jobs,” he said. When you’ve narrowed down your choices, ask for bids and several references. Call the references and ask how they communicated with the contractor about their projects: Were there regular meetings or weekly progress reports? In addition, sit down with the contractor to gather information, Mr. Taddei suggested. Will the contractor have multiple renovation projects happening at the same time? What type of insurance does he have? Which subcontractors will work on your project? Do the same due diligence on them. And finally, “ask yourself if you can see working with this contractor,” Mr. Taddei said, for weeks or even months. James Mansfield, the chief executive of West Village GC, a Manhattan-based general contractor, said clients should perform the same due diligence they would before investing in a company or mutual fund. “Are you willing to fork over $80,000 or $800,000 to that company?” he said. “Your renovation is an investment in your home, so I’m surprised when I see sophisticated people not ask any questions.” He estimated that only about 10 percent of his clients who have requested bids ask for references and actually call them. When it comes time to draw up a contract, make sure it stipulates that the contractor must put any advance payments into an escrow account, Mr. Singer said. This is one way to ensure that the contractor doesn’t use your deposit to pay for his next vacation. “If you’re nervous about how the contract should be worded, hire a lawyer to look one over,” Mr. Singer said. Advertisement Many homeowners use a one-third rule, dividing the total bill in three equal payments: before, during and after the job is done. This can work well on small projects, but some homeowners who feel they have been duped on larger renovations advise against it and urge a more detailed schedule and payment plan. “Do not pay for anything your contractor hasn’t finished,” said Alan Goldman, a homeowner in Niskayuna, N.Y. He hired a contractor who came with great referrals to redo his master bathroom in late July of 2016. And although Dr. Goldman could see that the work wasn’t progressing as the leaves started to change color, the contractor kept asking for money. “He worked on his own and had a very tight margin,” Dr. Goldman said. “I felt bad for him and kept rationalizing in my mind that he would get it together to finish the job.” As the holidays approached and his bathroom was nowhere near done, Dr. Goldman, who had lost about $11,500 at that point, had had enough. In January, he fired the contractor, who by then had health issues and admitted he couldn’t finish the renovation. Dr. Goldman said he regretted not having a concise, tailored contract that detailed the schedule and scope of work with a corresponding payment plan. For large projects like a kitchen or bathroom overhaul that requires a change in plumbing lines or electrical wiring, or a gut renovation or an addition on a house, it is best to hire an architect. Trying to manage a large project that might cost hundreds of thousands of dollars is too much for a homeowner to handle, said Brian Baer, an architect and executive director of the Elevated Studio, a nonprofit group that offers design and storm recovery case management. Architects provide design skills, and they can also explain building regulations and codes and help “to manage your expectations,” he said. You can download a standard contract from the American Institute of Architects. Besides detailed information about the renovation, the contract should define how the architect, contractor and homeowner will communicate throughout the project. Advertisement Mr. Mansfield, the general contractor, said clients need to play an active role in the renovation process. “There are many valid reasons why the deadline on projects gets extended, or the price goes up, but if you’re not taking the time to hear about it, then you’re caught weeks later wondering what happened, and you’ll feel like you’re being taken advantage of,” he said. Hillary Merman said she now regrets hiring an unlicensed contractor to renovate a bathroom in her rowhouse in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn. But she had hired the same contractor years earlier and felt he had been “good enough” back then. And he was the lowest bidder. Ms. Merman said she was baffled when a “rotating cast of workers” showed up at her home, and later figured out that the contractor wasn’t paying them. After demolishing the bathroom and ripping out the electrical outlets, the workers stopped showing up. And the contractor eventually stopped answering his phone after repeatedly promising to restart the job “tomorrow.” Ms. Merman paid about $2,700 to the contractor before he disappeared. As she put it, “You get what you pay for.” If you don’t know where to start, online services like Sweeten, Bolster and Homepolish can connect you with designers and contractors, and even help manage a renovation. What recourse do you have if you find yourself in a dispute with a contractor? Check to see if your state has a right-to-repair law, which puts some warranties on home improvement construction, allowing the contractor an opportunity to make repairs. If a conversation with your contractor doesn’t yield a satisfactory result, find a mediation service. In New York City, the New York Peace Institute provides free services, and many law schools and legal organizations offer volunteer mediators. If your contractor is licensed, you could also file a complaint with your local consumer affairs department. In New York City, once the department receives and reviews a complaint, it will contact the business and begin mediation. The department can resolve your case by requiring the contractor to pay restitution or fix or finish the job. The department can also file charges against the business and seek a decision from an administrative law judge through the city’s Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings. After a hearing, an administrative judge can order a business to pay restitution, issue a fine or even revoke the contractor’s license. If the business doesn’t have the resources to pay the homeowner, the consumer affairs department can tap into its home improvement contractor trust fund to award the homeowner up to $25,000. The fund currently has about $7.5 million, compiled from fees paid by licensees, Ms. Salas said. Advertisement Out of the 1,116 complaints filed against home improvement contractors in 2017, 509 cases proceeded to mediation. (Complaints that did not move to mediation were either withdrawn or did not have the necessary paperwork to proceed.) Of the cases that went to mediation, only 71 resulted in homeowners getting monetary restitution from their contractors, while 61 were resolved without financial compensation but to the satisfaction of the consumer. Some of the remaining cases were sent to a judge or an outside agency like the district attorney’s office for resolution. Either through mediation, decisions handed down by judges or settlements from the trust fund, homeowners received about $2.4 million in restitution in 2017, Ms. Salas said. Roberta Heiden, a homeowner in Marine Park, Brooklyn, has had two experiences with the consumer affairs department. Her first case, in 2009, took about a year to settle through a department mediation, and the contractor reimbursed her $5,000 for a bad job done on a driveway and garage project. Her current dispute with a fence installer, however, has tested her patience. Since her complaint was filed in 2015, the contractor has not responded to the department, Ms. Heiden said, and the case is now in the administrative hearing system. She was recently told by a city official that the contractor could take a year to respond to a summons, forcing her to wait longer for possible restitution from the city’s contractor trust fund. “I’ve been waiting three years to resolve this issue,” she said. “Do you think this system is for the consumer? It sure doesn’t feel like it.” Consumer affairs officials would not comment on Ms. Heiden’s current complaint, but said the timeline for a resolution depends on the complexity of the case. Homeowners can also try to seek criminal charges or file civil lawsuits against contractors, but prosecuting contractor fraud can be difficult. In recent years, though, there have been some criminal indictments against contractors charged with defrauding homeowners trying to restore homes damaged by Hurricane Sandy in 2012. David Ramroop, a homeowner in Amityville, on Long Island, said he hired Capstone Remodeling, a Smithtown-based contractor, to raise his house in 2015 to comply with federal regulations after Hurricane Sandy. He paid Capstone about $139,000 for work that was never finished and subsequently learned that the house had not been elevated to the correct height. He ended up paying another company to finish the job after months of delay. Advertisement Frustrated, he started a website to warn others about Capstone and its owner, Lee Moser, and soon found that dozens of other homeowners had similar tales. Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Although he felt some relief after Mr. Moser was arrested and charged with grand larceny and fraud, first in Suffolk County last October and then in Nassau County in December, he said, “I think consumer protection is an afterthought.” Mr. Ramroop considered filing a civil suit against Capstone, but decided against it because his legal fees would easily eat up any potential restitution he might get. Mr. Moser’s contractor’s license was revoked in both Suffolk and Nassau Counties in 2016. When reached on the phone, he declined to comment and his attorney, Brian A. Trodden, of Castro & Trodden, in Smithtown, N.Y., did not return calls. The Suffolk County Department of Consumer Affairs and the District Attorney’s office declined to comment, as did the Nassau County Department of Consumer Affairs. The Nassau County District Attorney, Madeline Singas, said she would like to bring more charges against contractors, but the current statute makes it difficult because there needs to be evidence that proves the business owner never intended to finish the job. “It’s heartbreaking,” she said, “because these homeowners were victimized first by the storm, and again by their contractor.” In Ocean County, N.J., an area hit hard by Hurricane Sandy, there have been 65 criminal indictments against contractors since the 2012 storm, said Stephen Scaturro, director of the county Department of Consumer Affairs. “Even though we have gotten some pushback from local builders’ associations, we have been aggressive about enforcement,” he said. “There’s a lot of legitimate guys out there, so it’s unfortunate we still see enough unscrupulous contractors that give the industry a bad reputation.” A photo caption in an earlier version of this article misidentified a woman in Niskayuna, N.Y., who had a problem with her contractor. She is Terri Goldman, not Terry Goldman. An earlier version of this article also misstated the amount that David Ramroop paid Capstone Remodeling to raise his Long Island house. It was about $139,000, not $87,000. For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page RE1 of the New York edition with the headline: Is That  Contractor A Good Fit?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 7:23 P.M. E.D.T.
 CARSON, Calif. —  Zlatan Ibrahimovic's debut with LA Galaxy on Saturday will add extra spice to their highly-anticipated first meeting with crosstown rivals Los Angeles FC, players and coaches said on Friday. News that the 36-year-old Swedish striker would leave Manchester United for the Galaxy sent shockwaves through LA last week and throngs of the Major League Soccer side's fans showed up to greet him at the airport late on Thursday. Saturday's sold-out fixture pits the Galaxy, one of the league's original 10 teams, against expansion club LAFC, whose ownership group includes sports figures and celebrities such as Will Ferrell and Magic Johnson. "It's a big start to something here," Galaxy defender Daniel Steres said on Friday after Ibrahimovic's first practice with the team at the StubHub Center. Advertisement "It's going to be a huge crowd, very energetic. It's going to be loud and it's going to be exciting. "(Ibrahimovic) adds a little extra bonus into it but I think even before, everyone in Los Angeles was pretty excited for this one. They've been looking forward to it all year." Advertisement Galaxy coach Sigi Schmid said Ibrahimovic, who is still working his way back from a knee injury, was available for the game but did not say whether he would play.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Schmid added that it was difficult to gauge the intensity of the rivalry between the sides at this stage, although if vandals defacing murals of each other's teams in LA is any indication it is already smouldering. "It means a lot to our fans and our fans are very important to us, so we want to put forth our best effort for them," he said. Galaxy defender Ashley Cole, who played in several derbies with Arsenal and Chelsea in the English Premier League, said it would take time for the rivalry to build up between the LA teams. "We have not yet played against them yet. I think it will take a few games to get into the spirit of it," he said. "But having a new team in LA is good for the city, good for the MLS and I'm looking forward to it." (Editing by Peter Rutherford) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 PHILADELPHIA —  Philadelphia 76ers All-Star center Joel Embiid will need surgery on an orbital fracture of his left eye and he has a concussion. There was no timetable Thursday on how long Embiid would be sidelined. The 76ers are set to play Friday in Atlanta and Sunday in Charlotte. Embiid posted a photo on Instagram of him on the court and grabbing his face with the caption, "I guess I gotta trust 'The Process' that I've been preaching... Unfortunate freak accident but I'll be more than fine." Markelle Fultz was driving toward the basket Wednesday against the Knicks when he appeared to accidentally head-butt Embiid. The 7-footer immediately went to the floor. He remained on the floor for several minutes before he was assisted by Philadelphia's trainer. Embiid sat up once before lying back down on the court. Eventually, he was helped off the court. Advertisement Fultz was not injured on the play. He posted a hands-clasped prayer emoji on Embiid's photo. Embiid passed the concussion test on Wednesday night but later began suffering symptoms that were diagnosed as a concussion and he has been placed in the NBA's concussion protocol. The Sixers clearly need their big man if they're going to make a run in the Eastern Conference playoffs. Embiid, who leads the Sixers with 22.9 points and 11 rebounds in 63 games, helped the team clinch their first playoff berth since 2012. They are 44-30 and fourth in the East with eight games left. Advertisement ___ More AP NBA: www.apnews.com/tags/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 7:00 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  The Latest on the Final Four of the NCAA Tournament (all times local): 4:30 p.m. Larry Brown has seen just about everything in basketball, and the veteran coach loves the lineup in this Final Four. Brown is traveling with Kansas during the NCAA Tournament, spending time around a program that he loves and providing support to Bill Self, his assistant for one season in 1985-86 while Brown was the Jayhawks' head coach. Yet the 77-year-old coach also sees plenty to love about underdog Loyola-Chicago, mighty Michigan and Villanova, which is coached by another good friend, Jay Wright. "I think it always ends up the best of the best when they get here," Brown said. "For Loyola to be here, what happened in 1963 brings attention to some things that are really important going on right now. I think that's really significant." Loyola won the 1963 NCAA title with a roster that flouted the unwritten rule limiting teams to no more than two black players on the floor at one time. Advertisement Good things happen to the Jayhawks when Brown is around. He coached Danny Manning's Jayhawks team to the 1988 national title, and he was traveling with Self's team in 2008 when Kansas won the 2008 national title. Advertisement "There's some unbelievable stories going on here," Brown said. "So I'm pretty excited just to get an opportunity to watch." ___ 2 p.m. When Villanova and Kansas meet Saturday, it will offer a potential matchup between two Associated Press All-American point guards in Devonte' Graham of the Jayhawks and AP men's college basketball player of the year Jalen Brunson with the Wildcats. And the coaches are looking at it a bit differently. Kansas coach Bill Self said he thinks it'll be "fun for people to see that and certainly fun to coach it." Villanova's Jay Wright offered a light chuckle and a sigh when asked about Self's thought. Wright says he tries "not to think about those types of things and I don't really think I would enjoy any matchup" with Graham — though he said it would be more about enjoying the challenge he presents. ___ 1:30 p.m. Michigan forward Moe Wagner isn't really trying to be the kind of player the opposition hates. It's just kind of happened that way because of the emotion and exuberance the 6-foot-11 German brings to the court. "I remember there was a game and I walked off after halftime, and I asked coach why do they hate me so much, because sometimes I don't understand it either," Wagner said. "I'm just out there having fun, expressing myself. That's just me. I do that at practice too, so people that know me know that. ... It's not that big of a deal." Advertisement Wolverines senior guard Muhammad-Ali Abdur-Rahkman, who has a more even-keeled approach on the court, shared how Wagner calms down during timeouts. "He talks in German. We let him calm down, and he gets right back out there," Abdur-Rahkman said. Coach John Beilein said Wagner "enters into third person. He starts talking to Moe. When he starts talking to Moe, we are quiet and let him talk to himself." ___ 12:30 p.m. Sister Jean is the celebrity to be seen with at the Final Four. As Sister Jean Dolores-Schmidt watched her Ramblers practice in the Alamodome on Friday, plenty of people stopped by to interact and snap a picture with Loyola-Chicago's biggest fan. When the Loyola-Chicago open session was wrapping up and the 98-year-old nun was being pushed in her wheelchair to leave the arena floor, the Michigan cheerleaders and dance team asked if they could pose for a picture with her.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sister Jean obliged and was surrounded by the kids in maize and blue. ___ 11:20 a.m. When Loyola-Chicago guard Clayton Custer was in high school and going against some players being recruited by Kansas, coach Bill Self approached him after a camp game. Self told Custer that the Jayhawks weren't going to recruit him. But it wasn't because the kid from Kansas wasn't good enough. "He told me, 'You're good enough to play at KU, but we're too loaded at guard right now, and it wouldn't make sense for you to come here,'" Custer said Friday. "I respect him 100 percent." Self and Custer are both in the Final Four. The 11th-seeded Ramblers play Michigan in a semifinal game, before Big 12 champion Kansas takes on Villanova. Custer, the Missouri Valley Conference player of the year, is averaging 13.2 points and 4.2 assists per game. Advertisement The Jayhawks are led by AP All-America guard Devonte Graham, the Big 12 player of the year. He was the second consecutive Kansas guard to be the AP Big 12 player of the year, following Frank Mason from last season. ___ 10:30 a.m. With the words "Sister Jean is in the building,'" the Day Before the Games at the Final Four is officially underway. Sister Jean Dolores-Schmidt of Loyola-Chicago kicked off a day full of interviews Friday, holding court for 15 minutes in front of a room jam packed with reporters. The 98-year-old nun has become the sensation of March Madness, blending her words of wisdom with a superfan's love of the Ramblers — the 11th-seeded team from Loyola-Chicago that plays Michigan on Saturday in the next step on an improbable run to the cusp of the national title. Among Sister Jean's pearls of wisdom: Yes, God cares about basketball, and really about the college version more than the NBA. Why? "These young players are playing for their hearts, and not for any financial assistance," she says. ___ 10 a.m. Sure, the Final Four teams are practicing in San Antonio the day before their semifinals in the NCAA Tournament. But the biggest event on Good Friday might be a news conference with Loyola-Chicago's own Sister Jean Dolores-Schmidt. The nun who serves as chaplain and writes scouting reports for her teams is meeting with a huge contingent of reporters as she's become the personality of this tournament. Players for the Ramblers, plus Michigan, Villanova and Kansas are practicing on Friday and getting used to the court where they'll play on Saturday night for a shot at the NCAA title. Advertisement ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 12:35 P.M. E.D.T.
 ATHENS —  The United Nations mediator seeking to end a long-running dispute over Macedonia's name, said on Friday difficult issues remained and talks with Greek and Macedonian officials would continue. Greece has contested Macedonia's name since it broke away from the former Yugoslavia in 1991, arguing it implied a claim on Greece's own region of Macedonia as well as its history. U.N. envoy Matthew Nimetz brokered a deal in 1995 allowing the Balkan state to join the U.N under the temporary designation "Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia", but talks since have failed to settle on a permanent name acceptable to both sides. A new round of talks began in January, and Skopje is hoping for a solution by a July summit of NATO, which it is seeking to join. Advertisement "Difficult issues were addressed - they're still on - difficult issues were resolved," Nimetz said in Vienna after meeting the foreign ministers of both countries. Advertisement "In my opinion, having been in this a very long time, there is a very positive feeling ... I'm hopeful that we can continue to work in a very positive way," he said. A series of talks would take place in the coming months, he added. Greece's foreign minister, Nikos Kotzias, told reporters the two sides had identified the main issues dividing them.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I hope that at our next meeting we will be ready to take a big step," he said. Both countries have said they would be ready to accept a compound name with a geographical qualifier such as "northern" or "upper" Macedonia, but they have yet to agree if that would require a change to Macedonia's constitution and to what extent. A solution would pave Macedonia's way towards NATO and EU membership, both of which have been blocked by Athens. Macedonia's Foreign Minister Nikola Dimitrov was quoted as saying by state news agency MIA that there had been "conditional progress in the negotiations." "It is not surprising that the more openly and more concretely we walk towards a solution, the more the difficulties come to light," he said. (Reporting by Karolina Tagaris and Lefteris Papadimas in Athens and Kole Casule in Skopje; Writing by Karolina Tagaris; Editing by Elaine Hardcastle) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 9:30 A.M. E.D.T.
 CARDIFF, Wales —  Anthony Joshua and Joseph Parker have shed the pounds (kilograms) for their world heavyweight unification title fight on Saturday. At a weigh-in on Friday where both fighters showed respect for each other, WBA and IBF titleholder Joshua tipped the scales at 242 pounds (110kg) — 12 pounds lighter than for his most recent fight against Carlos Takam in October. Parker, the WBO champion, weighed 236 pounds, nine pounds lighter than his last fight against Hughie Fury in September. "I feel better," said Joshua, who hasn't been this light for a world title fight. "When I put this weight into the real thing, I'll be a lot sharper and my reactions and timing will be better." Advertisement After the stare-down, Parker and Joshua shook hands and briefly chatted on the stage. "We're both going to be moving well," Parker said, "and throwing big bombs." Advertisement Renowned for his power punching having knocked out all 20 of the opponents in his professional career, Joshua said fans might see a different side to him on Saturday. "Boxing is not just about brute strength, it's about finesse and technique," he said. "So you're going to see some real class skills in there."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The fighters were addressing a crowd of about 4,000 people at the weigh-in at Motorpoint Arena in a rainy Cardiff. A New Zealander with Samoan heritage, Parker entered the stage to a few jeers, moments after supporters welcomed him with a New Zealand haka and a Samoan siva. Parker looked like he meant business, whereas Joshua was all smiles as he high-fived some fans on his walk to the stage. Around 78,000 fans are expected at the nearby Principality Stadium for the fight between two unbeaten world champions. ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 

 Jeff Sommer
 
 
STRATEGIES
MARCH 30, 2018
 The most surprising thing about the wobbly stock market of 2018 is that investors haven’t panicked — or at least that they haven’t panicked much. That’s the view of James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist of the Leuthold Group, an investment research firm based in Minneapolis. In some ways, panic is a subjective thing, he acknowledges, and it may seem that the storms that have swept through the stock market since early February have been more than enough already. But Mr. Paulsen has data to back up his view that investors have maintained their composure to a surprising degree, and maintains that a bigger dose of fear could have a salutary effect. “I think a much bigger panic is probably going to happen,” he said. “And I think the best thing for the market would be if it happened soon and we could just move on from there.” Advertisement Mr. Paulsen isn’t betting against the stock market, though. He remains a bull, but is convinced that valuations are too high and says the market’s nine-year upward trend isn’t likely to be sustained without a bigger adjustment in stock prices than has already taken place this year. Advertisement He bases these conclusions on some noncontroversial assumptions, which are widely shared: Stocks are priced at levels that are at the upward edge of historic bounds, and the recovery from the last economic recession remains in place but is now fairly mature and becoming increasingly vulnerable. For now, in the odd, contrarian logic of the market, the fact that investors haven’t been overwhelmingly worried worries him. It implies that far bigger declines may be on the way. That logic goes something like this: First, consider what has happened in the stock market since it peaked on Jan. 26. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell more than 10 percent by Feb. 8 but didn’t keep dropping; it is now down about 5 percent from that peak. That’s not much of a drop, after the sharp gains of the last nine years, and, especially, in 2017 and early this year. Whenever the market has had sharp declines so far in 2018, it has rebounded quickly. Yes, there have been sequences of ugly days, with declines of more than 2 and even 3 percent a day in the S.&P. 500-stock index. What’s more, the market has often looked absolutely horrendous when converted into the inflated currency of the Dow Jones industrial average, whose raw numbers have been swollen by outlandish gains since March 2009. With the Dow in the 20,000-plus-range, a 100-point drop is barely worth noticing: It amounts to less than half a percentage point. Using this crude and misleading measure, the Dow had its biggest single-day decline in history on Feb. 5, with a drop of more than 1,175 points. But that amounted to only a 4.6 percent daily drop, a minor distraction, in percentage terms, when compared with the worst day in history. That was Oct. 19, 1987, when the Dow fell 22.6 percent. Still, this year’s drops have garnered plenty of attention, but they have been followed by rallies, some of them within the same trading day, so that the overall change in the market is minimal. The stock market returns themselves provide evidence that there has — as yet — been no major panic. But there’s more. Advertisement Investors have not merely supported stock prices in a weak market, they have also failed to bid up the prices of the traditional “safe haven” assets like Treasury bonds, gold, the dollar and defensive stocks like utilities that tend to hold their value when the overall stock market sinks. Mr. Paulsen measured this effect by creating a proprietary Safe Haven proxy index, which combines these “risk-off” assets that tend to spike in value during crises. Treasury bonds, for example, have soared in value during past stock market downturns, but that generally hasn’t happened this time.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And while a stock market confidence index maintained by the Conference Board has fallen since the February decline, there’s little indication that investors have changed their behavior. “From the standpoint of behavior — meaning, what people are actually doing — there’s no sign that people have been fleeing stocks and moving to these assets,” he said. He says that further stock market declines — or, at least, a hiatus in the market’s long-term upward trend — may be desirable for stock market bulls. The reason is that stock prices, by many measures, still seem unsustainably high, while the economic expansion that has supported those prices may have entered a new, more fragile phase. One valuation metric, for example, the price-to-earnings ratio of the S.&P. 500, based on earnings over the past 12 months, is about 21. A more reasonable level, given historical averages and prevailing bond yields, would be a P/E of about 17, Mr. Paulsen said. To get down to that level, prices can fall or earnings rise, or both can happen. The Wall Street consensus is that earnings will rise substantially this year — perhaps by about 15 percent, thanks, in part, to a boost from the recent tax cut. “The problem,” Mr. Paulsen said, “is that the stock market rose so much last year that we’ve already paid ourselves a bonus from the tax cut and from earnings growth. The market needs to catch up with itself.” A sideways stock market for the next year — with prices remaining close to current levels while corporate profits grow — would restore valuations to a healthier level with less pain, he said. That would amount to a gentle, protracted correction, after which the stock market might then be ready to resume its upward trend. But a more violent correction is also possible, and, perhaps, more likely. Consider that the economic recovery is robust enough for the Federal Reserve to have begun raising short-term interest rates, and that the Fed projects further increases over the next two years. With the tax cut stimulating an economy that already has low unemployment, the Fed could be impelled to move more forcefully to fend off rising inflation. Advertisement But when interest rates rise, many assets, including stocks, are often deemed to be worth less. Rising rates alone could be expected to have a negative effect on the stock market. That’s why a further 15 percent drop in the S.&P. 500-stock index would not be shocking. The stock market could easily rebound after such a fall, with one important caveat: the health of the economy at that moment. Right now, no immediate recession is in sight and, as Robert Shiller, the Yale economist, recently wrote, economists have a miserable track record in projecting recessions a year in advance. The yield curve — the relationship between short- and longer-term bond yields — has moved in a direction that may portend economic problems, but it is not sending out clear signals of distress, at least not yet. Nonetheless, forecasters like Capital Economics already say there is a “modest risk” of a recession in 2019. Capital Economics expects the stock market to be lower then than it is now. But the consensus is that the economy will keep purring along. If it does, Mr. Paulsen says, a little stock market panic now may give the bull market the spur it needs for another strong run. Follow Jeff Sommer on Twitter: @jeffsommer We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 11:42 A.M. E.D.T.
 VIENNA —  Thorny issues remain between Macedonia and Greece in their efforts to resolve a decades-old dispute over the former Yugoslav republic's name, officials said Friday after talks on the issue. The two countries have been at odds for a quarter-century over the term "Macedonia," which Greece argues implies territorial aspirations on its own northern province of the same name. Macedonian Foreign Minister Nikola Dimitrov and Greek counterpart Nikos Kotzias met in Vienna with U.N. mediator Matthew Nimetz in the latest round of negotiations over the spat, which has been lingering since Macedonia gained independence from Yugoslavia in 1991. "We still have difficult issues to resolve in this difficult time," Nimetz said. "But I still have a positive feeling." Advertisement Nimetz said that both ministers were focused on stability in the region, and "I'm hopeful that we can continue to work in a very positive way." Advertisement Dimitrov described the meeting as having made "conditional progress, because as we move forward, we are coming to the tough issues." He said it was unsurprising that the further the talks progressed, the more issues of contention would come to light.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Kotzias said the two sides had now "identified in detail what we agree on and what we disagree on," and expressed the hope they would be "ready to make a big step" in their next meeting. No specific date has been set for further talks. None of the three gave details about what the difficulties were. The dispute has prevented Macedonia, which gained independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, from joining NATO and the European Union. It has been admitted to the United Nations under the official name Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. A recent change of government in Macedonia has fueled hopes an agreement can be found, although intensified talks have also met with major demonstrations in both countries by those who don't want to see any compromise. Friday's meeting was being hosted by Austrian Foreign Minister Karin Kneissl. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By DANNY HAKIMMARCH 30, 2018
 Gibson, what happened? There’s been talk of bankruptcy swirling around Gibson, the venerated Nashville-based guitar company, which takes in more than $1.2 billion in annual revenue but is more than $500 million in debt. Buzzards are circling. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the private equity giant, is a bondholder. Blackstone is also a major lender. Gibson’s problems are not hard to diagnose. The company’s longtime chief executive, Henry Juszkiewicz, wanted to diversify by turning Gibson into what he has called a “music lifestyle company” — basically a consumer electronics business that sells headphones and hi-fis as well as guitars. He made a splashy purchase of the audio and home entertainment division of Netherlands-based Royal Philips in 2014, and then ran headlong into the collapse of the euro. It was a disaster. Mr. Juszkiewicz, in an interview, didn’t sugarcoat it. “No, it wasn’t a great decision,” he said. “It didn’t work out very well. I think it was a rational decision, but it turned out to be a very poor decision, and it’s a decision I made. It is what it is.” Before we go further, we need to step back and take stock. Much is at stake. Chuck Berry’s “Maybellene,” which is now in the Smithsonian, is a Gibson. Tony Iommi of Black Sabbath wields a Gibson SG. Slash, of Guns N’ Roses? The company calls him its Global Brand Ambassador. Advertisement You once got the feeling that Carlos Santana could take an entire smoke break while he held a single note on one of his Gibsons, in the days before he switched to Paul Reed Smith guitars. Jimmy Page bought a Gibson off Joe Walsh and called his Les Paul “my mistress and my wife.” His double-necked Gibsons looked so heavy they might topple his spindly frame. Hendrix was really more of an upside down Stratocaster guy, but he had a Gibson Flying V, one of the most distinctive guitars ever made. So, of course, did Eddie Van Halen. Advertisement And then there is Nigel Tufnel. No veneration of Gibson was greater than the scene in the movie “Spinal Tap” in which Nigel, played by Christopher Guest, took the filmmaker Marty DiBergi, played by Rob Reiner, around his voluminous guitar collection. Nigel, wearing a skintight T-shirt with a life-size drawing of a rib cage, starts the tour by lifting up a 1959 sunburst Gibson Les Paul Standard. “This is the top of the heap right here, there’s no question about it,” Nigel says, deadly earnest. He points to the body of the guitar. “Look at the flame on that one. It’s quite unbelievable. This one is just” — he shakes his head — “it’s perfect. Nineteen fifty-nine.” Then he tilts the guitar toward the fictional documentarian. “Listen,” he says, reverently. Marty begins to ask him how much it costs, but is immediately cut off. “Just listen for a minute.” Marty: “I’m not …” Nigel: “The sustain. Listen to it.” Marty: “I’m not hearing anything.” Nigel pauses, looks at the guitar and then back at Marty, and says, “You would, though, if it were playing.” I could keep going with “Spinal Tap” dialogue, and I actually tried to before my editor wisely intervened. But I think I’ve made my point. Gibson is more than just a company, it’s a public trust. Advertisement Mr. Juszkiewicz was part of an investor group that bought the company in 1986, the last time it was on the verge of bankruptcy. He was a turnaround guy who had been an engineer at General Motors and played guitar in a band at Harvard Business School. (“It was mostly rock ’n’ roll, we did a lot of parties. Think ‘Animal House.’”) He righted the ship, but in recent years has had a series of struggles. The Justice Department raided the Gibson factories and offices in 2011, accusing it of importing banned woods from India and Madagascar. Mr. Juszkiewicz railed against government overreach, became a right-wing darling and got invited to Congress for a speech by President Barack Obama, in an act of defiance. The next year, Gibson agreed to pay a penalty of $300,000 and $50,000 more to promote conservation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mr. Juszkiewicz also wanted to make Gibson guitars more techno-whizzy, so they could even tune themselves. Purists were horrified. Neal Schon of Journey once referred to it as “all this electronical, robot crap.” Mr. Juszkiewicz called it “great technology” and said he believed all guitars will eventually have it. But auto-tuning has been scaled back after, he said, “the trolls took over the dialogue.” “My regret is we probably pushed a little too fast,” he added. Still, Mr. Juszkiewicz sticks to his broader vision for Gibson, which includes lower-priced brands like Epiphone and Kramer. Nike has been his model. He said he realized that, “like Nike, you couldn’t just sell to track guys, you had to sell to regular consumers.” Certainly, one can make an argument to diversify. Guitar sales are still below the peak they reached in the years before the financial crisis, though they have been recovering, according to data from The Music Trades, a magazine. Even Mr. Juszkiewicz worries about the future. “Kids today have so many more choices,” he said. And there are no guitar heroes anymore. Justin Bieber strumming an acoustic doesn’t cut it. Whether a company should diversify or stick to what it’s good at is an eternal business dilemma. But ultimately it’s about execution, and he made a losing bet. Mr. Juszkiewicz acknowledged that his hold on the company is at risk. “It is accurate to say bankruptcy is a possibility in the sense that our bonds expire,” he said, although he was hopeful about ongoing discussions to refinance. Advertisement At the same time, he said, some of the bondholders are not concerned about getting paid. “They are more interested in owning the company,” he said. “That’s an ownership play.” He did not elaborate further on that point. Gibson’s future will be much clearer by Aug. 1, when much of its debt comes due. In a statement, K.K.R. said it was “in constructive dialogue with the management,” and called Gibson “a terrific company with dedicated customers, employees and suppliers.” Blackstone did not comment. For its fans, Gibson has a powerful legacy. When I was a kid, I worked at a sub shop on the Virginia Beach boardwalk so I could earn enough cash to buy a Les Paul off a sailor looking to unload it. I brought along my older brother, who once built his own acoustic guitar and assembled sound effects for electric guitars from kits. He’s a man of few words, so I tend to monitor his eyebrow movements like one might watch a seismograph. When the Gibson’s case was opened, his forehead would have registered on the Richter scale. We closed the case and closed the deal. I didn’t have an ear or a sense of rhythm, but it was nothing that distortion and wah wah pedals couldn’t fix. Whatever happens, Mr. Juszkiewicz is 65 and his future with Gibson is winding down. For his long-term vision to succeed, he said, he will eventually “have to pass the baton to someone who also has that dream.” He added, “Part of this is evaluating financing options, and I have to look at what is best for the company, all of the stakeholders and myself.” Send tips, leaks and suggestions to hakim@nytimes.com or tweet @dannyhakim. Guitar tablature also accepted. (No Yngwie please.)  A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BU3 of the New York edition with the headline: While Their Guitars Gently Weep.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ROBERT GLENNONMARCH 30, 2018
  THE WATER WILL COME Rising Seas, Sinking Cities, and the Remaking of the Civilized World By Jeff Goodell 340 pp. Little, Brown. $28. The most pernicious consequence of global warming is the rise of sea levels, which threatens cities around the world and has already triggered what may become the largest mass migration in human history. According to the International Organization for Migration, by 2050 as many as 200 million climate refugees will seek dry land to call home. Other writers have told the story of sea-level rise, but perhaps none as compellingly as Goodell. His riveting stories, from traveling to a Native American village on the Alaskan coast with President Obama, to the dilemma facing the Pentagon concerning the world’s largest naval base, Naval Station Norfolk, clarify the implications of sea-level rise and the choices communities face. There are no simple solutions. Building sea walls buys time, but eventually the water will come, and with it corroded infrastructure, unusable farmland, public health disasters, destroyed homes and businesses. Relocating is one solution, but it can be, as Goodell calls it, a game of real estate roulette. Advertisement The wealthy and politically connected will dictate how, when and whether cities and towns devote resources to elevating roads and buildings. These decisions are unlikely to favor poor neighborhoods or poor nations. Even wealthy cities, like New York and Miami, lack the resources to protect everyone affected. The costs of even partial mitigation are staggering. In 2018, New York City will commence construction of the East Side Coastal Resiliency Project, known as the Big U, a 10-foot steel and concrete berm around Lower Manhattan, at a cost of more than $3 billion. Advertisement The best long-term solutions, Goodell argues, involve working with nature rather than fighting to control it. One thing is certain: Rising sea levels will make it harder for governments to perform their essential function of keeping people safe. REPLENISH The Virtuous Cycle of Water and Prosperity By Sandra Postel 323 pp. Island Press. $29. In the 20th century, societies dammed many rivers, depleted others and relentlessly pumped groundwater. The loss of habitats, especially wetlands, devastated fisheries and wildlife. Yet many water managers are embracing a new mind-set of working with nature rather than trying to conquer it. Postel tells a remarkable story of rejuvenation involving the Colorado Delta in Mexico. Upstream diversions dried up the delta decades ago. Yet in 2014, collaboration between the United States and Mexico, a binational team of scientists and conservationists, and several NGOs resulted in an agreement to turn the water back on. Watersheds, which Postel calls “nature’s water factories,” are receiving special attention as cities try to make their water supplies more resilient. In 2010 the city of Denver joined the United States Forest Service to establish the Forest to Faucet Partnership, which underwrote a tree-thinning program to make forests more fire-resistant while enhancing water flow.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. New York City has a remarkable water supply in the Catskills, but the city faced a dilemma in the 1990s. Unless it took steps to protect the watershed surrounding its reservoirs, the city would need to build a water treatment plant. Rather than spend upward of $10 billion on the plant, it spent less than $4 billion protecting and restoring the watershed. These and other stories — of cities conserving and reusing water, farmers engaging in “conservation agriculture,” and a dam-removal movement that is restoring thousands of miles of free-flowing rivers — give substance to the idea of replenishing. THE SOURCE How Rivers Made America and America Remade Its Rivers By Martin Doyle 349 pp. Norton. $26.95. Doyle’s book tells the story of how rivers have shaped the United States from its founding, when cities were located astride rivers that served as transportation arteries for goods to move up- and downstream. As the new nation added lands, the federal government began to play an essential role in regulating rivers that crossed state boundaries, building dams for flood control and water supply, and overseeing the hydroelectric power they provided. Advertisement In the latter half of the 20th century, environmental concerns prompted all levels of government to change course. Most notably, the Army Corps of Engineers, which has done more to straighten and confine rivers than any agency in the history of the world, remade itself into a force for restoring meanders in rivers, guarding endangered species and protecting wetlands. Doyle grafts his original ideas and research onto a big argument that doesn’t quite hold up. To be sure, rivers shaped American society. But the federal government’s authority, under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution and the 16th Amendment’s power to generate revenue for federal projects, affected far more than rivers. It’s a stretch to claim that the “whole economic history of the United States” is the story of determining which level of government would provide water. Other economic historians place substantially more emphasis on railroads and the Interstate Highway System, for instance. Still, Doyle’s historical perspective offers a poignant account of how financing the country’s water and wastewater systems began at the local level, moved to the federal level, then, following the Reagan Revolution and the pulling back of federal funds, brought us to our current situation. Today, Washington provides almost no help to cash-strapped states and cities to rehabilitate their water systems.   Robert Glennon is a professor at the University of Arizona and the author of “Unquenchable: America’s Water Crisis and What to Do About It.” Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BR26 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Water.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 10:42 A.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Flavor Flav had his red cap flipped backward as he pulled out his iPhone on the Madison Square Garden court. Flav held the camera steady and recorded cousin Shep Garner clip the final strands of the championship net and wave it toward the Penn State die-hards. Flav's T-shirt at the NIT said it all for the Nittany Lions: Believe the hype! Garner hit the 3-pointer that brought rapper and reality star Flavor Flav to his feet and helped send Penn State on its way to an NIT title in an 82-66 victory over Utah on Thursday night. The fourth-seeded Nittany Lions (26-13) also knocked off No. 1 seed Notre Dame in the tournament en route to winning their first NIT title since 2009. "This means the whole world to me right now ," Flavor Flav said. They were pretty pumped in Happy Valley, too. Advertisement "I think we set the standard," Garner said. "We preach defense and rebounding, but now we have something we can always go to. We won something. We're champions." Advertisement Flavor Flav, member of the seminal '80s rap group Public Enemy, sang along to "Fight the Power" as it blasted in the Garden and had the PSU student section chanting "Flav! Flav! Flav!" as the Nittany Lions pulled away for a program-defining championship under coach Pat Chambers. Lamar Stevens scored 28 points, Josh Reaves had 18 and Tony Carr had 15 points and 14 assists for Penn State. Penn State's Bryce Jordan Center has a long-standing reputation as one of the dreariest arenas in college basketball. Penn State fans, from rappers to silver-haired alumni, packed the Garden all the way to the last row of the upper deck. Penn State football coach James Franklin, who led the program to a Pinstripe Bowl victory in 2014, was in the house. Flavor Flav stole the show a few rows behind the PSU bench. Wearing a T-shirt that read "33 Shep Garner," Flavor Flav danced all night in his seat. Flavor Flav popped his T-shirt and raised the roof in the same arena where Public Enemy once tore down the house. "I think we've proven to teams across the country that Penn State basketball is here to stay," Chambers said. The clutch moment came in the third quarter when Garner — who became Penn State's career 3-point leader in the tournament run — hit a 3 for his first basket of the game and a 49-41 lead that had the fans going wild.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "To see my cousin break records, win trophies, all that, he deserves it," Flavor Flav said. "The whole team deserves it." Reaves hit a crashing layup on a three-point play that stretched the lead to 11 and Stevens wagged his tongue toward the PSU fans on a jumper that helped blow open the game. Advertisement Flavor Flav raised an arm in the air when Garner sank a 3 early in the fourth for a 68-49 edge that all but put this one away. The final minutes certainly put some flava in your ear — half the MSG crowd chanted "We Are!" and the other half bellowed "Penn State!" Sedrick Barefield hit six 3s and scored 22 points for second-seeded Utah (23-12). "You're always kind of watching the NIT and maybe you think of it as the consolation prize or whatever," Utah coach Larry Krystkowiak said. "They have no idea how cool this was for us." BIG PICTURE: Utah: David Collette, Justin Bibbins and Tyler Rawson are among the seniors moving on. ... Bibbins scored 15 points. Penn State: Stevens reached 1,000 career points was named most outstanding player. ... Chambers, a former assistant coach under Jay Wright at Villanova, took over in 2011 and has struggled to find any kind of regular success. The Nittany Lions have never made the NCAA Tournament under Chambers and they'll have just their second winning record in seven seasons. But Penn State's 26 wins are second-highest in program history. The Nittany Lions won a record 27 games in 2008-09. BIG CROWD The 11,175 fans at MSG were the most for an NIT final since 2005. "And you say we're a football school," Chambers cracked. SOMETHING DIFFERENT The NIT was a bit of a mad scientist in the college basketball lab. The game featured four 10-minute quarters. The tournament also implemented the FIBA 3-point line (22 feet, 1.75 inches), NBA-width lane of 16 inches, and a 20-second shot clock following offensive rebounds. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 10:39 P.M. E.D.T.
 MIAMI —  Another year. Another record. The NBA's 3-point craze is not slowing down. For the sixth consecutive season, NBA teams have combined to set a league-wide 3-point record. Last season's number was 23,748, and No. 23,749 of this season came on Friday night. The league is more than 8 percent ahead of last year's pace, and 25,000 makes this season is very possible. So clearly, the reliance on the 3-pointer is not going to lessen anytime soon. "I think it's a trend for a while — but at some point it has to peak," said Cleveland forward Kevin Love, one of the many NBA big men who has no trouble making 3s, and that's a big reason why the totals are soaring. "Every position, 1 through 5, is now shooting 3s. You see that as such a weapon. It makes the game fun, makes it interesting. There's definitely a lot of spacing out there and it's wild to see." Thing is, that peak isn't visible. Out of 30 teams, 19 are either on pace to set — or have already set — franchise records for made 3s this season, and a couple others are within reasonable striking distance. There are shooters now all over the league. Only four seasons ago, the total of NBA players who made at least 100 3s was 57. This year, that total is going to be close to doubled. Across the NBA this season, 91 percent of players have attempted at least one 3-pointer and 81 percent of players have made at least one. Advertisement Rookies are making them; Utah's Donovan Mitchell had 172 enter Friday and is closing in on the record for a first-year player, that being 185 by Portland's Damian Lillard. Also making them are 7-footers; eight guys listed at 7-0 or taller will likely get to the 100 mark by the end of the season. Advertisement And the league as a whole is actually getting better at them. Accuracy from 3-point range has gone up about 1.5 percent over the last three seasons, definitely one of the reasons why scoring per game is higher than it's been at any point in nearly 30 years. "We all like to get out there, shoot a lot of 3s, spread the floor and try to move the ball as much as you can," Houston coach Mike D'Antoni said. "Everybody is more or less the same ... with the same outline. Just get it done in different ways." The first season where the NBA combined to make 15,000 3-pointers was 2009-10, and that seems like ages ago. The 20,000 plateau was broken just two seasons ago, and barring something very unusual this season's total will top 25,000. Love knew the 3-point pace was higher than ever. But he didn't think the record would be set this early, and that the previous mark would be obliterated.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Wow. Wow. Wow," Love said, upon hearing the numbers. Wow is right. The single-team mark is also about to fall, and then get left in the dust for good measure. Houston, which is quite obviously flourishing in D'Antoni's free-flowing system and has the league's best overall record, hit 14 3s on Friday night — including a game-winner to beat Phoenix 104-103. The Rockets now need only five more to break the single-season mark that they established ... you guessed it, last season. It was only two years ago that Golden State became the first team to make 1,000 3s in a season — and the Rockets are on pace to get near 1,300 this season. "It's safe to say a Mike D'Antoni team will be the first team that averages 50 3s in a game," Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said. "We can laugh at that now. But it will happen, and his team will probably be the first to do it. His first team that allegedly changed the game only averaged 23 3s a game, that 2004-05 Suns team. And look where they are now, basically doubling that up almost." He's exaggerating for effect, but only slightly. That team in Phoenix averaged just under 25 3-point attempts per game. This season's Rockets are averaging nearly 43, and have gotten 50 or more attempts from deep up 12 times this season. Advertisement It works for them: Houston is 11-1 in those games. It's a statistically irrelevant sample size with which to draw a comparison, but the other teams to take at least 50 3s in a game this season — Brooklyn twice, Boston once — are 0-3. "I'm sure there's a ceiling," Orlando coach Frank Vogel said. "I just don't know what it is." Neither does anyone else. ___ More NBA basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 9:33 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN DIEGO —  Ji-Man Choi says being with the Milwaukee Brewers reminds him of a fun day at an amusement park. The Brewers enjoyed a wild ride on opening day, beating the San Diego Padres 2-1 in 12 innings on Thursday. Reliever Jeremy Jeffress emphatically pumped his fists several times after getting Chase Headley to hit into a bases-loaded double play in the 11th, and then Orlando Arcia singled in Choi with two outs in the 12th inning. "We're locked. We're ready to go," a still-excited Jeffress said afterward. "We have players here who can help us out in huge ways. We're staying locked, staying prepared." Advertisement Arcia's hit came off sidearmer Adam Cimber (0-1), who was making his big league debut. After getting Manny Pina to hit into a double play, Cimber allowed Choi's pinch-hit double before Arcia's go-ahead RBI. Advertisement Choi was the only non-roster invitee to make the team out of spring training. His stay might be short because the Brewers need to add newly signed Dan Jennings to the 25-man roster. Choi said through a translator that bench coach Pat Murphy gave him a pep talk before the game. "That uplifted me and gave me the confidence, and even when I came in to pinch-hit I had that confidence to do well," he said. The game's biggest moment may have been when Jeffress got Headley to ground into a 5-2-3 double play on a splitter to the end the 11th. "Oh man, I was so pumped. Just excited, man," Jeffress said. "That's the drive and the confidence we need out of everybody, especially in the pen. Just get that confidence, man, knowing that nobody can beat us." Jeffress (1-0) pitched two innings for the win. Jacob Barnes struck out the side in the 12th for the save. The Brewers were one out away from winning 1-0 on a four-hitter when Freddy Galvis, acquired in a trade with Philadelphia, singled to right off Corey Knebel, a first-time All-Star last year, to bring in Carlos Asuaje and send it into extra innings. Asuaje singled with one out and stole second with two outs. Milwaukee's Chase Anderson allowed one hit in six innings in his first opening day start. He had six strikeouts and three walks.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The right-hander also singled to center off Clayton Richard with two outs in the third, advanced on Lorenzo Cain's single to left and scored on Christian Yelich's single to left. A late, awkward slide left the pitcher shaken up momentarily, but he stayed in the game. Advertisement Richard, making his first opening day start at age 34, went seven innings, allowing one run and six hits with four strikeouts and one walk. "Chase pitched well," said Padres manager Andy Green, who dropped to 0-3 on opening day. "There was no consistent pattern to come to and he kept you honest enough inside so you couldn't hang out over the plate, so you've got to tip your hat a little bit but we'll have much better at-bats than that going forward." Richard "was outstanding," Green said. "You trust the man, that's why you give him the ball on the first day of the season. His sinker was very good today. I don't think he had it like that in spring training." The Padres flashed some nice defense. Galvis, San Diego's fifth different starting shortstop in five opening days, made a terrific play in the second when he fielded Pina's hard one-hopper as he went to the ground and flipped the ball to second baseman Asuaje to start an inning-ending double play. Headley, the third baseman, made a nice play on Ryan Braun's hard grounder to start an inning-ending double play in the first. Padres newcomer Eric Hosmer, signed to a $144 million, eight-year contract early in spring training, went 0 for 4 with a walk and two strikeouts in his Padres debut. QUOTABLE "We'll get some bubble wrap for the guy," Jeffress said about Anderson's slide. PREGAME Trevor Hoffman, who will be inducted into the Hall of Fame in July, threw the ceremonial first pitch to his older brother, Glenn, the Padres' third base coach. Trevor Hoffman played the bulk of his career with the Padres before playing two seasons with Milwaukee. Before the national anthem, the Padres held a moment of silence for three former members of the organization who died in recent months: Kevin Towers, Dick Enberg and Rob Picciolo. Towers was general manager for 14 years, building four division winners, including the 1998 team that went to the World Series. Enberg finished his long Hall of Fame career with seven seasons as the Padres TV voice. Picciolo was a longtime coach. UP NEXT LHP Joey Lucchesi is scheduled to make his big league debut for the Padres on Friday night after recording a 1.54 ERA in four spring starts. The Brewers will counter with RHP Jhoulys Chacin, who went 13-10 with a 3.89 ERA with San Diego last season. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 10:02 A.M. E.D.T.
 CARDIFF —  A leaner and lighter Anthony Joshua weighed in some six pounds heavier than Joseph Parker on Friday for the battle of the undefeated heavyweight world champions in Cardiff. The Briton tipped the scales at 17 stones four pounds and two ounces at the weigh-in, attended by a crowd of more than 4,000, compared to the New Zealander's 16 stones 12 pounds and seven ounces. Joshua, the reigning WBA, IBF and IBO world champion, is also taller and with a six inch reach advantage over Parker, who will be bringing his WBO belt to the Principality Stadium for Saturday night's unification fight. The Briton had stepped into the ring against Cameroonian-French opponent Carlos Takam in Cardiff last October, for a defense he won in 10 rounds, at a career-high 18 stones and two pounds. Advertisement "I've been running well, training well," said the 2012 Olympic champion, who has a 20-0 record with all his fights won by knockout. Advertisement "Losing that little bit of extra weight has made things that little bit easier. "I feel better...if everything goes to plan, you'll see I'll be a lot sharper and my reactions and timing will be a lot better," the Briton told the crowd. Joshua's camp had made much of just how seriously the 28-year-old was taking training, his obsession with shedding the pounds and how that had been paying off in his ringcraft and training.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Parker, 24-0, took it as a compliment ahead of what will be the biggest fight of his career, with an 80,000-strong crowd expected through the doors on Saturday. "It makes me think that he's taking this fight really seriously, he's trained very hard," he said after standing face to face and staring into the eyes of his opponent for the last time before they meet in the ring. "He's in good shape, I'm in good shape. There's not much of a weight difference, which is good. we're both going to be fast for tomorrow night, we're both going to move well and throw some big bombs." Parker said he saw confidence in Joshua's eyes, and was ready for anything. "I'm here for a good fight, I'm here for war," he declared. "You're going to have to give me everything to beat me...he's got a bigger crowd but that doesn't matter, that doesn't faze us." Saturday's fight will bring the heavyweight title a step closer to undisputed status and put the focus even more on American Deontay Wilder, who holds the WBC crown and is undefeated in 40. (Reporting by Alan Baldwin in London, editing by Ed Osmond) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 11:14 A.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Starbucks Corp and other coffee sellers must put a cancer warning on coffee sold in California, a Los Angeles judge has ruled, possibly exposing the companies to millions of dollars in fines. A little-known not-for-profit group sued some 90 coffee retailers, including Starbucks, on grounds they were violating a California law requiring companies to warn consumers of chemicals in their products that could cause cancer. One of those chemicals is acrylamide, a byproduct of roasting coffee beans that is present in high levels in brewed coffee. Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle said in a decision dated Wednesday that Starbucks and other companies had failed to show there was no significant risk from a carcinogen produced in the coffee roasting process, court documents showed. Advertisement Starbucks and other defendants have until April 10 to file objections to the decision. Starbucks declined to comment, referring reporters to a statement by the National Coffee Association (NCA) that said the industry was considering an appeal and further legal actions. Advertisement "Cancer warning labels on coffee would be misleading. The U.S. government’s own Dietary Guidelines state that coffee can be part of a healthy lifestyle," the NCA statement said. In his decision, Berle said: "Defendants failed to satisfy their burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence that consumption of coffee confers a benefit to human health."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Officials from Dunkin’ Donuts, McDonald's Corp, Peet's and other big coffee sellers did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The lawsuit was filed in 2010 by the Council for Education and Research on Toxics (CERT). It calls for fines as large as $2,500 per person for every exposure to the chemical since 2002 at the defendants’ shops in California. Any civil penalties, which will be decided in a third phase of the trial, could be huge in California, which has a population of nearly 40 million. CERT's lawyer Raphael Metzger did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Starbucks lost the first phase of the trial in which it failed to show the level of acrylamide in coffee was below that which would pose a significant risk of cancer. In the second phase of the trial, defendants failed to prove there was an acceptable "alternative" risk level for the carcinogen, court documents showed. Several defendants in the case settled before Wednesday's decision, agreeing to post signage about the cancer-linked chemical and pay millions in fines, according to published reports. (Reporting by Nate Raymond; Additional reporting by Lisa Baertlein; Writing by Andrew Hay; Editing by Richard Chang and Leslie Adler) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Inside the List  By                     
TINA JORDAN

MARCH 30, 2018
 FULL ENGLISH Long ago, the mystery writer Elizabeth George — inspired by John Steinbeck’s “Journal of a Novel,” a collection of letters he wrote to his editor while working on “East of Eden” — began to keep a diary, jotting down ideas, research issues, plot problems and the like. “Actually, I used to keep two journals,” she admits, “one about the book I was working on, which I wrote every morning, and one more personal, which I wrote every night, about the struggles I was dealing with in my own life. But the two have merged.” Even today — she’s just published her 20th Inspector Lynley novel, “The Punishment She Deserves,” which debuts on the hardcover fiction list at No. 2 — she still finds journaling useful. The first Lynley book, “A Great Deliverance,” came out in 1988. The series has gone on for so long, George says, that “it can be a delicate dance” to introduce new readers to her characters. “I don’t want to give out every single detail about their pasts, which would be tedious for faithful readers,” she says, “so at this point I only repeat the information that’s relevant to the current book.” The other big challenge of writing a series? While she doesn’t have any problems recalling the details of her characters’ lives, “sometimes I have to double-check the names and places in their pasts. For example, Daidre Trahair” — Lynley’s love interest — “has a brother and sister with very unusual Cornish names, so I usually have to leaf through a past book and make sure I’ve got it right.” George, a meticulous researcher, visits England multiple times to investigate her settings. “Seeing the place is really helpful in developing the plot, because if I don’t go, there are things I simply won’t know,” she explains. “For example, for the new book I went to Ludlow, and when I visited the police station, it was closed. There was an intercom and video-camera setup at the building which connected people with the police and emergency services. That became a hugely important plot point in the book.” George’s knowledge about the inner workings of New Scotland Yard is so exhaustive — and her understanding of class issues in British society so finely tuned — that some readers profess surprise when they learn she is American. How, they ask, can she turn out novels with such a distinctly British flavor? “The reality is very simple. I set my novels in England because I like to write about England,” she says on her website. “Why on earth do people find it so weird that I write about England? It worked well enough for Henry James.” Follow Tina Jordan on Twitter: @TinaJordanNYT Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast. A version of this list appears in print on April 8, 2018, on Page BR24 of the Sunday Book Review.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 7:18 A.M. E.D.T.
 Giancarlo Stanton and Matt Davidson gave opening day quite a jolt. A new baseball season began with a bang Thursday when Ian Happ of the Chicago Cubs homered on the very first pitch.World Series MVP George Springer connected , Adam Jones and Nick Markakis hit walkoff winners and Anthony Rizzo delivered the most emotional drive of the day. Shohei Ohtani also got off to a nice start with a hit in his first at-bat . But a year after big leaguers launched a record 6,105 longballs, Stanton and Davidson staged their own long-distance home run derby. Stanton hit two hard homers and doubled in his debut with the New York Yankees during a 6-1 victory at Toronto. The reigning NL MVP led the majors with 59 home runs last year, then was traded from Miami to the Bronx. "You want to get the first one out of the way and then you can relax," Stanton said. Davidson did even better, hitting three home runs for the Chicago White Sox in a 14-7 romp at Kansas City. He became the fourth player with a three-homer performance on opening day, joining Detroit's Dmitri Young (2005), the Cubs' Tuffy Rhodes (1994) and Toronto's George Bell (1988). Advertisement "Special day in anybody's book," White Sox manager Rick Renteria said. Not every pitcher got tagged, though. Advertisement Justin Verlander pitched six shutout innings for the champion Houston Astros in a 4-1 win over Texas. Luis Severino threw one-hit ball over 5 2/3 scoreless innings for the Yankees. Boston ace Chris Sale gave up just one hit in six innings, but Tampa Ray rallied for six runs in the eighth to win 6-4. And in Seattle, Felix Hernandez used a biting curveball to outduel Cleveland ace and AL Cy Young award winner Corey Kluber. Hernandez pitched 5 1/3 scoreless innings, while Kluber allowed two runs over eight in the Mariners' 2-1 win. The new season has a couple new numbers on the scoreboard, too. As part of MLB's pace of play initiatives, mound visits are now counted. Teams are allowed six without pitching changes — by the managers, coaches or infielders — before a trip triggers a mandatory change on the mound. There didn't appear to be any flaps with umpires over the new policy, though it seemed to have an early effect in Miami, where Jose Urena gave up a home run to Happ on his first pitch. Dwight Evans is the only other player to connect on the first pitch of a season, doing it for the Red Sox in 1986 off Jack Morris at Tiger Stadium, the Elias Sports Bureau said. "I was thinking fastball first pitch there," Happ said. Urena hit three batters in the first inning and walked two. Even so, it took a while before pitching coach Juan Nieves went to see him — when he did, the scoreboard at Marlins Park counted down the MVs from six to five. The next inning, Rizzo earned a standing ovation after his home run at Miami. Both teams wore patches to honor the 17 people killed at his former high school in Parkland, Florida. Crossing home plate, the Cubs star patted the patch on his chest and pointed to the sky. "That was probably the most out-of-body experience I've had hitting a home run in my life," Rizzo said. "It just felt really good."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Early in the day, the rain was the big winner. The Pittsburgh-Detroit game at Comerica Park was rained out, a day after the Washington-Cincinnati game was postponed in advance. Advertisement Under gray skies, it was somber at Citi Field, where the New York Mets mourned former star Rusty Staub, who died hours before the opener. In Toronto, the Blue Jays held a pregame tribute to late ace Roy Halladay and retired the pitcher's number No. 32. All over the majors, there was expanded netting to provide extra protection for fans sitting near the field. And in Arizona, the new bullpen buggy — a nod to the past — was set for its first ride to shuttle relievers from bullpens to the mound. Aaron Boone of the Yankees and Mickey Callaway of the Mets won in their first games as major league managers, Alex Cora of the Red Sox and Gabe Kapler of the Phillies lost. Ohtani got on the board with his first swing, grounding a hard single to right field for the Los Angeles Angels. The two-way newcomer from Japan often looked overmatched at the plate in spring training, but did fine in his first try while batting eighth as the designated hitter. The 23-year-old will make his pitching debut Sunday against the Athletics. It will be a little longer until Greg Holland pitches for St. Louis, but at least he has a job. The closer and the Cardinals agreed to a $14 million, one-year contract less than two hours before they faced the Mets. Dozens of free agents remain without deals, including Jose Bautista, Mark Reynolds, Carlos Ruiz, Matt Holliday and Melky Cabrera. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:36 A.M. E.D.T.
 SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Victor Oladipo got the Pacers off to a quick start, then picked up the pace again in the fourth quarter after Indiana's offense went into a brief funk. With that, Nate McMillan's team picked up another win on the road and stayed in the hunt for home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs. Oladipo made his first five shots before scoring 13 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, including a pair of free throws with 2.5 seconds remaining, and the Pacers held on to beat the Sacramento Kings 106-103 on Thursday night. "I just got in my spots and I was effective. That was it," Oladipo said. "I was worried about just being aggressive, getting to my spots and making the right play." Advertisement Bojan Bogdanovic had 25 points, Thaddeus Young added 18 points and eight rebounds, and Darren Collison finished with eight points and nine assists against his former team to help the Pacers extend their winning streak to four. Advertisement Indiana remained percentage points behind fourth-place Philadelphia in the East. "This is Victor's first time really being in this position where he's leading a team and the ball is in his hands late and his team is having success," McMillan said. "He's doing a good job of when he has single coverage taking shots and making shots, and when teams are double-teaming, getting the ball out and trusting (his teammates)." Cyclone fences were erected around Golden1 Center and extra members of law enforcement in riot gear were lined up outside the arena in anticipation of a possible third day of protests over the fatal police shooting of Stephon Adams, an unarmed 22-year-old African-American who was shot in his grandparents' backyard on March 18 as police searched for a person suspected of attempting to break into several homes. A funeral for Clark was held early Thursday afternoon and protestors held marches near the district attorney's office but did not make it to Golden1 Center. That was in contrast from previous marches when demonstrators surrounded the arena and prevented fans from getting inside. The Pacers led 99-91 with 3 minutes left following a 12-5 run. Oladipo had eight points during the surge, including a pair of three-point plays. After Buddy Hield scored seven consecutive points, Bogdanovic sank a pair two free throws for Indiana before Sacramento's Bogdan Bogdanovic — no relation to the Pacers player — hit a 3-pointer with 3.4 seconds left to pull the Kings within 104-103.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Oladipo, who struggled from the perimeter, then made his shots from the line. "Sacramento was hitting big shot after big shot it seemed," Oladipo said. "We did a great job of just being poised and getting a win." Willie Cauley-Stein had 19 points and seven rebounds for the Kings. Bogdanovic scored 21 points and Hield had 20. "We made some mistakes but we shot the ball pretty well," Sacramento coach Dave Joerger said. "Had a chance there the last couple of minutes but they made some tough shots and pulled back in there." Advertisement TIP-INS Pacers: Young went to the locker room briefly in the second quarter after taking a hard foul from Sacramento's Skal Labissiere. ... Oladipo has made at least one steal in 59 consecutive games, the longest active streak in the NBA and the sixth-longest in league history. Kings: Cauley-Stein had 17 points in the first half. ... Garrett Temple remains sidelined with a left ankle sprain. GETTING IT DONE ON THE ROAD The Pacers have finished above .500 on the road only five times in their history and not since 2013-14. The win over Sacramento, however, improved Indiana to 19-18 away from home with wins in eight of its last 12 road games. "We've been in a lot of situations this year and we feel as though we've experienced both ends of the spectrum," Oladipo sad. "We've been successful and we haven't. But we know what it takes to be successful and that's what we did today." UP NEXT Pacers: Travel to Los Angeles to play the Clippers on Sunday. Kings: Host Golden State on Saturday. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:39 P.M. E.D.T.
 BOSTON —  The Boston Bruins appear to be quite ready for the playoffs. And the Tampa Bay Lightning are slumping at the wrong time of the season. The top two teams in the Eastern Conference slugged it out Thursday night and Boston prevailed, knocking Tampa Bay out of first place for the first time since October with a 4-2 win on Thursday night. "This definitely had a playoff feel to it," said Brand Marchand, whose empty-net goal with 56 seconds left sealed it for the Bruins, who took over first place in the conference with less than two weeks remaining in the regular season. "Obviously we all know how big it was for the standings and what it meant for both teams. So it was great to see the guys react the way they did and have the game we did." Advertisement Patrice Bergeron had a goal and two assists, Tim Schaller and David Pastrnak scored goals 32 seconds apart in the final minute of the first period and Tuukka Rask made 26 saves for the Bruins, who have 107 points and lead Tampa Bay by a point. Advertisement Boston has six games remaining in the regular season to five for Tampa Bay. For the first time since Oct. 18, a team other than the Lightning leads the Eastern Conference. "I think it means that we've been playing pretty good hockey the last couple of months," said Rask, who also helped set the emotional tone by unloading a flurry of punches on Tampa Bay's Cory Conacher during a scrum in the second. It was one of many times in the game that postseason implications were apparent, including a rare fight for Pastrnak in the third period and several more battles before the officials had to separate both sides one final time — after the third-period buzzer. "There was a ton of passion," Tampa Bay's Alex Killorn said. "There was a lot of hits and a lot of scrums after the whistle. It seems like it could potentially be a playoff matchup. It definitely had a playoff atmosphere tonight." J.T. Miller scored a power-play goal for Tampa Bay in the second and Victor Hedman added a goal in the third. Andrei Vasilevskiy finished with 26 saves for the Lightning, who have lost three straight and are 0-3 against the Bruins this season. "Playing in here is always difficult," Killorn said. "The second and third period, I think we did a pretty good job. We created a lot more opportunities for ourselves." Killorn had an apparent goal waved off in the third when a teammate was in the crease with Boston leading 2-1. A few minutes later, Torey Krug passed to Bergeron at the side of the net for a goal to put Boston up 3-1 at 11:59 of the third.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Lightning cut it to 3-2 when Hedman beat Rask through his legs with 6:06 remaining in the third, but Marchand's empty-netter sealed it and Boston took over the top spot in the division and conference. Advertisement "It was a big win for us. Finally we jumped them after a whole season chasing them," Pastrnak said. The Bruins outshot the Lightning 17-6 in the first period and took a 2-0 lead with a pair of goals in the final minute. Schaller put Boston up 1-0 after stealing the puck from Ryan McDonagh just inside the blue line and started a 2-on-1 break with Tommy Wingels, who got off a shot as Schaller crashed the net and poked in the rebound. Killorn took an interference penalty with 31 seconds remaining and Pastrnak scored 5 seconds into the penalty, putting the Bruins up 2-0 with 26 seconds left in the period. The game paused for a few minutes with 8:44 left in the second after Rask took a few shots at Conacher when he was slow to get up after getting tangled with Brandon Carlo in the crease. Rask landed several punches with his glove before players from both teams jumped in and were eventually separated. Vasilevskiy skated toward the other end, but was cut off at the blue line by referee Francois St. Laurent, who kept the Tampa Bay goalie from entering the fray. Boston fans roared their approval by shouting "Tuuuuuuuuk!" throughout the altercation. Later in the second, it was Pastrnak stepping in after a hit on Bergeron and squaring off with Tampa Bay's Dan Girardi. Pastrnak said it was his first fight and his inexperience showed when Girardi quickly took him down, but the Bruins appreciated his effort. "I don't think I've fought ever — like ever," he said. "I'm a pretty calm-down guy." NOTES: Krug finished with two assists. The Lightning and Bruins play one more time in the regular season, Tuesday night in Tampa Bay. ... Boston improved to 7-1-0 in its past eight against Tampa Bay. ... Boston D Zdeno Chara, who signed a one-year contract extension with the Bruins on Wednesday, missed his seventh straight game with an upper-body injury. ... Tampa Bay coach Jon Cooper entered the game with 239 wins, tied with John Tortorella for the most in franchise history. ... The Bruins haven't lost in regulation since Florida shut them out 3-0 on March 15. UP NEXT Lightning: At New York Rangers on Friday night. Bruins: Host Florida on Saturday afternoon. ___ More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 10:23 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - German fourth seed Alexander Zverev beat Spaniard Pablo Carreno Busta 7-6(4) 6-2 on Friday to set up a Miami Open final showdown against big-serving American John Isner, who earlier overwhelmed Juan Martin del Potro. Carreno Busta gave as good as he got in the opening set but Zverev took over the rest of the way, sprinting through a second  set in which he dominated on serve and broke his 16th-seeded opponent twice. "I didn't feel I was playing my best in the beginning of the first set, a lot of errors." Zverev said in an on-court interview. "I was down in the tiebreak and I was like, I’m losing anyway I might as well be aggressive. So that’s what I did, I hit a few winners, very fortunate to win the first set and then found my game in the second." Advertisement In the opening set tiebreak, Zverev sent a crushing backhand winner up the line to earn a set point. And at 6-4, with Carreno Busta serving, Zverev forced his opponent into a forehand error. Advertisement Zverev used a stinging crosscourt backhand for a break in the third game of the second set and broke his opponent again in the seventh before going on to serve out a match that took 88 minutes at Crandon Park. The 20-year-old German will now set his sights on collecting his seventh career ATP Tour title and third Masters 1000 crown when he faces 14th-seed Isner in Sunday's final.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Zverev is 3-0 in head-to-head meetings with Isner, his most recent victory coming in last year's Italian Open semi-final. Earlier, Isner ended Indian Wells champion del Potro's 15-match winning streak with a 6-1 7-6(2) victory over the fifth-seeded Argentine to reach his first Miami final. ​​Punishing a tired del Potro with his serve and groundstrokes, the lanky American breezed through the first set in 27 minutes after securing an early break. The players held serve in a much-tighter second set until Isner claimed the tiebreak. Isner, who will become the top-ranked American on Monday, brought up match point with a backhand winner down the line and then clinched with a sublime dropshot. "I've just continued to keep playing better," said Isner, who lost only 11 points on serve in the match. "I think today was even my best match. Very, very encouraging. "Physically, I'm super-fresh and I'm ready to go for the finals." (Reporting by Gene Cherry in Salvo, North Carolina and Frank Pingue in Toronto; Editing by Pritha Sarkar/Peter Rutherford) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 9:27 P.M. E.D.T.
 KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. —  After John Isner clinched his berth in the Miami Open final, he came over the top one last time, throwing a celebratory punch at a speed to match his thunderous serve. The towering American moved one step closer to the most prestigious title of his 14-year career by beating a weary Juan Martin del Potro 6-1, 7-6 (2) in Friday's semifinals. "I'm playing the best tennis I've played in a very, very long time," said Isner, 32. "And I'm so happy to be doing it here." Dominating with his serve and aggressive baseline strokes, the 6-foot-10 Isner ended a 15-match winning streak for del Potro, who won Indian Wells two weeks ago by beating Roger Federer in the final. The toll of so many matches showed, and Isner was the better player from start to finish. Advertisement Seeded No. 14, Isner is 0-3 in ATP Masters 1000 finals. His opponent Sunday will be No. 4 Alexander Zverev of Germany, who beat No. 16 Pablo Carreno Busta of Spain 7-6 (4), 6-2. Advertisement Zverev, 20, has won two Masters 1000 titles, both in 2017. Isner raced to a 3-0 lead against del Potro, finished with 13 aces, never faced a deuce point on his serve and was at his best when closing out the victory. He smacked consecutive aces to reach 6-all, and made all four first serves in the tiebreaker, including aces of 138 and 139 mph. He also hit two drop volleys for winners in the tiebreaker, with the second coming on match point. If Isner looked relaxed, it's because he was. "I've played a lot of big matches where I wasn't able to free up," he said. "It's just a mentality. You've got to tell yourself to go for it. There's no other way to play the point, especially for me, because I can't really run from side to side." Del Potro, seeded No. 5, was the fan favorite thanks to South Florida's large Latin population, and a flag-waving, ole-singing, near-capacity crowd tried to inspire a rally from the Argentine after he fell behind.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I've been feeling tired in all my body for the last couple of weeks," del Potro said. "But I got so much love from the fans that the pains go away during the match." Even so, Isner knew he was the fresher player. He held his own in the occasional extended rally, and repeatedly quieted the crowd with big serves. "I was fortunate to get a del Potro who is very, very low on fuel," Isner said. Isner beat three seeded players en route to the final, including No. 2 Marin Cilic. He conceded he didn't see this winning streak coming. "I've just continued to keep playing better," he said. "I think today was even my best match. Physically I'm super fresh, and I'm ready to go for the final." Advertisement Isner is seeking to become the first American man to win Key Biscayne since Andy Roddick in 2010. "When he plays as good as today, he's one of the tougher guys on the tour," del Potro said. "He has everything to win a title like this." Another American, reigning U.S. Open champion Sloane Stephens , will play No. 6-seeded Jelena Ostapenko of Latvia on Saturday for the final women's title on Key Biscayne. The tournament will move 18 miles north next year to the Miami Dolphins' stadium. ___ More AP tennis coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/apf-Tennis ___ Follow Steven Wine on Twitter: http://twitter.com/Steve_Wine . His work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/steven-wine We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 9:32 A.M. E.D.T.
 BEIRUT/MOSCOW —  A Syrian rebel group said on Friday that U.N.-mediated talks with Russia were "heading in the right direction" but denied it had agreed to evacuate the last insurgent-held enclave in eastern Ghouta. The town of Douma, controlled by the Jaish al-Islam rebel group, is the last patch of eastern Ghouta still held by insurgents who have been routed in a ferocious offensive by the Russian-backed Syrian military that began in February. Its recovery would seal a major victory for President Bashar al-Assad, crushing the last big rebel stronghold near Damascus seven years into a conflict that has killed hundreds of thousands of people and displaced millions. Thousands of people - fighters from other rebel factions, their families and other civilians - have been leaving for northwestern Syria from other parts of eastern Ghouta in convoys of buses that have been given safe passage to Idlib province. Advertisement Jaish al-Islam has so far refused such an evacuation, saying it amounts to forced demographic change by Assad and his allies. Advertisement The Russian news agency Interfax quoted the Russian military's general staff as saying it had reached agreement with insurgents in Douma to leave, without saying where they would go. "Agreement was reached today with the leaders of illegal armed groups on the departure in the near future of the rebels and their family members from the town of Douma," it cited Sergei Rudskoy, an official with the general staff, as saying. The Jaish al-Islam military spokesman quickly denied the report. "Our position is still clear and firm and it is rejecting forced displacement and demographic change in what remains of eastern Ghouta," Jaish al-Islam military spokesman Hamza Birqdar said in a message posted on his Telegram feed.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But Mohammad Alloush, the group's political official, said the talks over Douma were moving in the right direction and the "chances (of agreement) are getting stronger day after day". Alloush, who is based outside Syria, made the comments in a report whose accuracy he confirmed to Reuters. Douma is surrounded by Syrian government forces. There are tens of thousands of civilians in the town. Syrian state TV said a deal had nearly been reached for Jaish al-Islam to leave Douma to the Idlib, citing preliminary information. The government offensive in eastern Ghouta has killed more than 1,600 civilians, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says. It said a total of 144,000 people have now been displaced from eastern Ghouta. While thousands have gone to rebel-held territory near the Turkish border, the bulk of the displaced have fled the fighting to shelters in government-held areas near eastern Ghouta. Advertisement (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova in Moscow and Tom Perry in Beirut; writing by Tom Perry; editing by Mark Heinrich) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By The Associated Press DETROIT — The Detroit Pistons might have waited too long to start a serious push for the playoffs, though they are hoping to at least make things interesting for the Milwaukee Bucks. Andre Drummond scored 24 points and pulled down 23 rebounds, and the Pistons beat the Washington Wizards 103-92 on Thursday night for their fifth win in six games. "This wasn't a pretty game, but we found a way to get the win and stay in the hunt," Reggie Jackson said. "Andre deserves a lot of credit for that, because he was great. We know he can get big numbers, but he was taking away everything in the post tonight. That was huge." The Pistons remained five games behind the Bucks for the last Eastern Conference playoff spot. The Bucks won at the Golden State Warriors later on Thursday. Detroit was missing power forward Blake Griffin, who was a late scratch with an ankle contusion. Griffin, who was getting an MRI on Thursday night, is averaging 19.8 points, 6.6 rebounds and 6.2 assists in 25 games since joining Detroit late January. In his absence, the Pistons went back to the high pick-and-roll offense that worked so well for Jackson and Drummond. "Reggie still doesn't have his legs back — he played 28 minutes tonight and he was really tired — but we were able to go back to running that offense," Pistons coach Stan Van Gundy said. "He had eight assists, but if you look at the passes he made where we missed shots, he could have had even more." Anthony Tolliver, starting for Griffin, scored 14 points, while reserve post players Henry Ellenson and Eric Moreland combined for 11 points and seven rebounds in 26 minutes. "A.T. was really good, but we expect that from him," Van Gundy said. "It was Henry and Moreland who were huge. Henry hasn't played on a regular basis since we got Blake, but he did a great job for us tonight." Bradley Beal had 15 points for Washington and Kelly Oubre added 14. The Wizards, who would have clinched a playoff spot with a win, have lost four of five. "We know, and that's the most disappointing part of this," Beal said. "We just have to put that behind us and win some more games." Both teams struggled in the first half, which finished with a 49-all tie. They combined to shoot 6 for 25 (24 percent) on 3-pointers, while the Pistons turned the ball over nine times. Drummond had seven points, 12 rebounds and a blocked shot in the half, while Beal led the Wizards with 10 points. Otto Porter Jr. had to be helped off the court early in the third quarter with a sprained right ankle, and the Pistons were able to move the lead to 63-55. "We don't know how serious it is, but we think it is a mild sprain, which is a great sign," Wizards coach Scott Brooks said. "We'll see how he is in a couple days, and then a couple more days, and we'll make our decisions." Drummond scored 13 points in the third, giving him 20 for the game and Detroit finished the quarter on an 8-0 run to take an 81-66 lead. Beal was injured in a collision with Ellenson at the end of the quarter, but returned in the fourth. "We just couldn't make any shots in that quarter and we weren't attacking," Brooks said. "When nothing's falling, you have to manufacture points at the line, and we couldn't even get into the bonus." The Wizards cut the gap to 91-87 with 5:15 left, but Detroit scored the next six points, including four from Jackson. TIP-INS Wizards: Brooks said before the game that John Wall (knee) is close to returning and could play as soon as Saturday against the Charlotte Hornets. Pistons: Detroit announced an honorary call-up of G League forward Zeke Upshaw, who died Monday of heart problems after collapsing during a game on Saturday. Upshaw, 26, was in his second season with the Grand Rapids Drive, Detroit's G League affiliate. DRUMMOND'S BIG GAMES Drummond recorded the 20th 20/20 game of his career, the most of any NBA player since he joined the league in the 2012-13 season. DeAndre Jordan (15) is the only other player with more than 10. "Obviously, 24 and 23 is incredible, but that doesn't tell you how good he really was," Van Gundy said. "He was so active on both ends of the floor that he changed the game." UP NEXT Wizards: Host the Charlotte Hornets on Saturday. Pistons: Visit the New York Knicks on Saturday in the first game of a New York City back-to-back. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By JOHN KOBLINMARCH 30, 2018
 “Roseanne” is going to be here for a while. Three days removed from its blockbuster premiere, ABC said on Friday that it would bring back the revived sitcom for another season. After “Roseanne” drew 18.2 million viewers and a mighty 5.1 rating among adults under 50 on Tuesday, a renewal was all but inevitable. Roseanne Barr, the show’s co-creator and star, had previously said she wanted to do another season. And when networks find something that works these days, they are quick to lock it down. NBC renewed its reboot of “Will & Grace” to a second season before the show premiered in September. This month, it renewed the old sitcom for a third go-round, keeping the show alive until 2020. “Will & Grace” drew more than 10 million viewers in its return in September. “Roseanne” has been something else altogether. Advertisement With one day of delayed viewing factored in, the audience for the “Roseanne” premiere is now up to 21.9 million viewers. Among adults under 50, the rating went up 22 percent, to a 6.2 rating. Those numbers will continue to creep upward as more people catch up on their DVRs or through on-demand viewing. Advertisement The current “Roseanne” season, technically the show’s 10th, comprises nine episodes, seven of which have yet to air. The next season of “Roseanne,” which will be shown as part of ABC’s 2018-19 lineup, is currently planned at 13 episodes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Roseanne,” the first run of which was part of the ABC schedule from 1988 to 1997, has thrust itself into the middle of the national conversation. Ms. Barr, in real life and on the show, is a vocal supporter of President Trump, who called to congratulate her on the ratings win and mentioned her success during a rally in Ohio on Thursday. Fox News pundits have praised the show for representing people who they say are not usually major characters on network television shows. Although “Roseanne” has won generally favorable reviews from critics, some on the left have expressed feeling conflicted over supporting the show. Its early success has been a big win for ABC. “Roseanne” is part of a broader strategy hatched by the network’s executives  soon after Mr. Trump’s surprise victory in 2016. The TV industry will keep a close eye on the performance of “Roseanne” as it moves deeper into the season: Will there be a drop in viewership, or will all the recent media attention keep the ratings relatively high? (“Will & Grace,” for example, lost 30 percent of its live audience between its first and second week — but the show helped make up the gap with delayed viewing.) The outsize ratings success of the first episode could also help reverse a dry spell: ABC was stuck in last place among the four major broadcast networks for each of the last two seasons. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: ‘Roseanne’ Revival Renewed  By ABC for a Second Season.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 8:57 A.M. E.D.T.
 CHICAGO —  Scott Foster thought it was going to be just another night. Then the 36-year-old accountant signed a contract, put on his goaltender gear and waited in Chicago's locker room. Then he got into the game. Then it was his night. Foster was pressed into action when Chicago lost Anton Forsberg and Collin Delia to injuries, and the former college goalie stopped all seven shots he faced over the final 14 minutes of the Blackhawks' 6-2 victory over the playoff-bound Winnipeg Jets on Thursday. "This is something that no one can ever take away from me," Foster said. "It's something that I can go home and tell my kids and they can tell their friends. ... Just a ton of fun." Foster is part of a crew of recreational goaltenders who staff Chicago's home games in case of emergencies for either team. But it usually just means a nice dinner and a night in the press box watching the world's best players compete at hockey's highest level. Advertisement Nothing at all like this. "What a moment," Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville said with a chuckle. Forsberg was expected to start, but he got hurt during a "pregame ritual," according to Quenneville. Delia, who was just recalled from the minors Wednesday, then stopped 25 of 27 shots in his NHL debut before he was helped off the ice with 14:01 left after he cramped up. Advertisement Enter Foster, a married father of two who lives in nearby Oak Park and plays in two rec leagues. After a short warmup, the game resumed and Foster got a big cheer from the crowd of 21,839 when he denied Tyler Myers for his first save about a minute after he came in. "The initial shock happened when I had to dress. I think you just kind of black out after that," Foster said. Backed by chants of "Foster! Foster!" and more loud ovations, he made another stop on Myers and turned away Paul Stastny and Dustin Byfuglien in the final minutes. When it was over, the Blackhawks poured onto the ice and mobbed Foster in the net. "He was great," defenseman Brent Seabrook said. "I think the boys were doing whatever they could to help him out. He made some big saves. Fun night." The Jets had won six in a row and were trying to clinch home-ice advantage for the first round of the playoffs. But even they were moved by what happened. "It's tough for anybody to come in 50 minutes into a hockey game, let alone a guy who hasn't played in the (NHL)," coach Paul Maurice said. "A great moment for him." Carolina Hurricanes equipment manager Jorge Alves became the first emergency goalie to play in a game in the modern era last season. He closed out the final 7.6 seconds of a 3-1 loss to Tampa Bay.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The NHL adjusted its rules last summer to mandate that teams have an emergency goalie present for all home games ready to fill in for either team — setting the stage for Foster's most competitive action since 20 minutes in relief with Western Michigan University in the 2005-06 season. Advertisement "A few hours ago I was sitting on the computer typing on a 10-key, and now I'm standing in front of you guys having just finished 14 1/2 minutes of NHL hockey," he cracked. It was a wild finish to one of Chicago's best performances in a lousy season. Tomas Jurco scored a career-high two goals in Seabrook's 1,000th regular-season game, and touted prospect Dylan Sikura had two assists in his NHL debut. Patrick Kane, Alex DeBrincat and defenseman Erik Gustafsson each had a goal and an assist, and Brandon Saad also scored. The 32-year-old Seabrook got the start alongside fellow alternate captain and frequent defensive partner Duncan Keith. He became the fifth player in franchise history to skate in 1,000 or more games for the team, joining Stan Mikita, Bobby Hull, Eric Nesterenko and Bob Murray. Bryan Little scored his 200th NHL goal for Winnipeg in the opener of a four-game trip. Mark Scheifele also scored for the Jets, and Eric Comrie made 36 saves while subbing for starter Connor Hellebuyck. "It wasn't a good night," Little said. "It wasn't good from the start. It's one of those games you want to forget and put behind you and look to the next one." Kane got Chicago off to a fast start when he shot it between Comrie's legs for his 27th goal 3:44 into the first, and the Blackhawks just poured it on from there. Saad made it 2-0 with a nifty move to his backhand in front at 17:17. Jurco added two goals in the second before Little got Winnipeg on the board with his 16th of the season at 14:24. But Gustafsson responded for the Blackhawks, scoring on a nice rush to the net at 17:27. NOTES: Quenneville said Delia was going to travel with the team to Colorado and should be fine for Friday night's game against the Avalanche. With four games left in the season, he said Forsberg (lower body) is likely done for the year. Jean-Francois Berube was recalled from Rockford of the AHL on an emergency basis. UP NEXT Jets: Visit Toronto on Saturday night. Blackhawks: Visit Colorado on Friday night. ___ ___ More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 10:35 A.M. E.D.T.
 SINGAPORE —  Singapore's competition watchdog said it had reasonable grounds to suspect competition had been infringed by Uber Technologies Inc's [UBER.UL] deal to sell its operations in Southeast Asia to rival ride-hailing firm Grab. In a rare move, the Competition Commission of Singapore (CCS) has begun an investigation into the deal and proposed interim measures that will require Uber and Grab to maintain their pre-transaction independent pricing, the watchdog said in a statement on Friday. The proposal also requires Uber and Grab not to take any action that might lead to the integration of their businesses in Singapore, a move likely to pose a major hurdle to the U.S. company's attempt to improve profitability by exiting the loss-making Southeast Asian market. It is the first time the commission has issued interim measures on any business in the country. "To address consumer concerns, we have voluntarily committed to maintaining our fare structure and will not increase base fares. This is a commitment we are prepared to give the CCS, and to the public," Lim Kell Jay, head of Grab Singapore, told Reuters in a statement. Advertisement Uber was not immediately available for comment. Uber and Grab announced the deal on Monday, marking the U.S. company's second retreat from an Asian market. Advertisement Under the deal, Uber will take a 27.5 percent stake in Grab, which is valued at around $6 billion, and Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi will join the Singapore-based company's board. CCS proposals also require both Grab and Uber not to obtain from each other any confidential information including pricing, customers and drivers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The two firms will be given an opportunity to make written representations to the CCS upon receipt of the proposed interim measures, it said. Singapore has a voluntary merger notification regime, and     CCS has yet to receive the notification from Uber and Grab as of Friday, although the companies have indicated their intention to file a formal merger notification, CCS said. "We had engaged with the CCS prior to signing and continue to do so," Lim said. "We have informed the CCS that we are making a voluntary notification no later than 16 April 2018 to continue to cooperate and engage with the CCS," he added. The deal is the industry's first big consolidation in Southeast Asia, home to about 640 million people, and is widely expected to give Uber more firepower to focus on other markets including India, as it prepares for an IPO in 2019. Uber lost $4.5 billion last year and is facing fierce competition at home in the United States and across Asia, as well as a regulatory crackdown in Europe. The firm has invested $700 million in its Southeast Asian operations. (Reporting by Miyoung Kim, additional reporting by Fathin Ungku; Editing by Himani Sarkar, Jacqueline Wong and Gareth Jones) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By David Brooks If you had pulled somebody aside in the mid 1970s and asked him to predict how racially integrated America would be in 2018, he would probably have said: pretty integrated. American schools were integrating very quickly back then. The subject of racial integration was on everybody’s tongue. Young people seemed to be growing up in a very different racial environment, and the rising tide of immigration was making America a more diverse place. Unfortunately, the mid-70s were, by some measures, a kind of a high-water mark. School integration peaked then, and American schools have been resegregating since. Measured by Google Ngram, the phrase “racial integration” was used most frequently then; people have been using the phrase less and less ever since. By the late 1990s, passion for the cause had been lost. As Tamar Jacoby wrote in her 1998 book “Someone Else’s House”: “If integration is still most Americans’ idea of the goal, few of us talk about it any more. The word has a quaint ring today — like ‘gramophone’ or ‘nylons.’ ” Now we seem to have entered a phase of trepidation, or even passive segregation. Race is on everybody’s mind, but are there enough efforts to create intimate bonds across racial lines? Jacoby emphasizes that there are two kinds of integration, objective and subjective. The former is about putting people of different races in the same classroom, office and neighborhood. The latter is about emotional bonds of connection, combining a positive sense of pride in group with an overall sense that we are a “we.” Three-quarters of American whites have no close nonwhite friends. A study from the Public Religion Research Institute found that if you looked at the average white person’s 100 closest friends, you would find that 91 would be white. If you looked at the average black person’s 100 closest friends, 83 of them would be black. Many people support racial integration in the abstract but don’t want to do the things integration would require. Some see integration as a sentimental notion not connected to immediate concerns. Others have accepted the idea that birds of a feather flock together and always will. The big problem with this complacency is that you end up in a racially divided nation with millions of people left in areas of concentrated poverty, falling further behind. Racism is America’s great sin, and if there isn’t continual progress to combat it, the nation becomes ugly to itself. Moreover, you wind up with the depressing results reported in The Times last week, that even when African-American families do manage to rise to affluence, their boys can’t stay there because of systemic racism and the lack of fathers/role models in their neighborhoods. In retrospect, trying to integrate the country through the schools may have been a mistake. Racial integration in schools does produce better student outcomes, which last throughout a lifespan. But parents are super-paranoid about their children. It doesn’t matter how supposedly enlightened a white neighborhood is; if the government brings poor black kids into the school, many parents react with fury, or with moving vans. It might have been better to lead with residential integration. If American parents are unwarrantedly fearful and race-minded about their kids’ environment, they seem to be less so about their own. As William Frey of the Brookings Institution has shown, American neighborhoods have become steadily more integrated. Northern and Midwestern cities like Milwaukee and New York are still very segregated, but Southern and Western cities like Atlanta; Louisville, Ky.; Dallas; and Las Vegas have made strides. Intermarriage rates are also rising. In 1967, 3 percent of Americans married outside their race or ethnicity. Now 17 percent do. Twenty-four percent of black men marry a woman outside their race, as do 12 percent of black women. Even churches are integrating. Martin Luther King Jr. observed that Sunday morning was the most segregated hour in America, but today one in five churchgoers worship in a congregation where no single ethnic or racial group predominates. If we’re going to kick-start another push toward racial integration — which is more or less a moral necessity — maybe the place to start is in the neighborhoods. As the work of the Stanford economist Raj Chetty has emphasized, poverty is very place-oriented. It is the granular conditions of each specific neighborhood that influence whether the residents have a high or low chance of rising and succeeding. A renewed integration agenda would mean building public housing in low poverty areas, eliminating exclusionary zoning laws, and yes, accepting gentrification (a recent U.C.L.A. study finds that gentrification is increasing diversity in District of Columbia public schools). Then schools could be integrated through the back door by using socioeconomic status as a factor in student assignment. The big shift, of course, has to be psychological. Everybody laments how divided America is, but how many of us are part of an organization that lets us meet once a week with others who are very different from ourselves? Integration doesn’t mean losing the essence of what makes each group special; it just means connecting fervently with a fellow American. Roots down/walls down/bridges out. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 8:15 P.M. E.D.T.
 ORLANDO, Fla. —  Annika Emmert and her mom made the short trip south to attend Shaquem Griffin's pro day at UCF. They grabbed a spot right behind the sideline barricade at the school's steamy, on-campus indoor practice facility. They watched. They cheered. They waited for Griffin to complete linebacker and defensive back drills, meet with a few NFL scouts and then finish up several rounds of media interviews. When he was finally done, Griffin stopped to say hello to Emmert and another prosthetic-wearing teen. The reason was obvious. Advertisement Emmert, a 13-year-old middle-school student from St. Augustine, has one hand like Griffin. They exchanged pleasantries, talked about his workout, next month's NFL draft and getting ice cream and strawberry sodas. Advertisement If Griffin has even close to the impact in the NFL that he's had on Emmert and others with disabilities, he'll be a star. "Everything he does is just an inspiration to anyone like me," Emmert said. "Basically, it's just amazing what he's done and what he can do." Tears trickled down Emmert's cheeks a few minutes later as she spoke about kids her age refusing to high-five her nub following soccer matches. And then she beamed thinking about all Griffin has accomplished and everything he has in front of him. "Even if it's not a big thing, it's always a big thing meeting someone like him that's exactly like you," she said. "It makes your heart pound. It's so amazing." No one would argue that. Griffin has been the feel-good story of the NFL draft. A groundswell of support got him an invite to the scouting combine in Indianapolis, where he stunned onlookers by bench-pressing 225 pounds a staggering 20 times with a prosthetic left hand and then covered the 40-yard dash in 4.38 seconds. "He's special, man," said UCF cornerback Mike Hughes, widely projected as a first-round pick. "What he's done over the past couple of months, it's just amazing." Griffin had little left to prove Thursday. He didn't need to bench. He didn't need to run. He probably didn't need to do anything. Advertisement But he did anything and everything asked of him. The 2017 American Athletic Conference defensive player of the year did the vertical jump, a few agility drills and even worked with defensive backs to show he could break on balls, backpedal and swivel his hips during full stride. He dropped a number of passes, but also made several acrobatic catches.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "If I need to prove anything else, just tell me what I need to do and I'll get it done," Griffin said. No one should question that at this point. Griffin was 4 years old when doctors amputated his left hand a day after his mother found him in the kitchen attempting to cut off his jelly-like fingers, which were in scorching pain whenever he touched anything. He was suffering from amniotic band syndrome, a congenital birth defect. Despite having just one hand, he kept up with his twin brother on and off the field. His brother, Shaquill Griffin, is now a cornerback for the Seattle Seahawks. Shaquem will join him in the league in a few weeks. He's become so popular that the NFL already extended him an invite to attend the NFL draft in person in Dallas. "It goes to show that I've been putting a lot of work in and it's paying off now," Griffin said, adding that the draft moment is going to be emotional for his family. "I was a guy who was under the radar and they didn't believe in me at first, but I think they're starting to believe now." Representatives from 31 of 32 NFL teams were on hand to watch Griffin, Hughes and several more talented teammates Thursday. Griffin already met privately with Tennessee and New Orleans, and has several workouts lined up over the next few weeks. Although there has been a lot of speculation about where he will play at the next level, Griffin said most teams project him to be a weak-side linebacker. "All the doubt about him ... You see him out here performing. I don't know why there's doubt," UCF receiver Tre'Quan Smith said. "He obviously can play." Advertisement He also can inspire others. Emmert wants to be a pediatric oncologist, and has no backup plan. Watching Griffin do his thing makes her confident she can do anything she wants. "Honestly it's just amazing," she said. "I always wanted to do something like that, especially in the future. Not just in football like him because I don't know anything about football. But as long as he's in it, I'm in it, too." ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:57 P.M. E.D.T.
 KOBANI, Syria —  The Latest on two detained notorious British IS group members (all times local): 7:55 p.m. Two British members of the Islamic State group thought to be members of a cell notorious for beheading hostages in northern Syria say the International Court of Justice may be "fairer" than a trial in the United States. Alexanda Amon Kotey tells The Associated Press in an interview Friday that would be the "logical solution or the logical option." "Unless America wants to be the big bully and say no, no," he said. The AP interviewed Kotey and another member of the IS cell dubbed "The Beatles" that are believed to have captured, tortured and killed hostages including American journalist James Foley and Western aid workers. The parents of the victims say the two, who are being held in northern Syria by a U.S.-backed force, should be brought to America to face the U.S. justice system. Advertisement ___ 6:45 p.m. A British man accused of belonging to an Islamic State group cell that captured, tortured and killed western hostages in Syria says their killing was "regrettable" and could have been avoided. Advertisement Alexanda Amon Kotey tells The Associated Press in an interview Friday that many people within the Islamic State group would have disagreed with the execution of all the western hostages on the grounds that there is "probably more benefit" in them being political prisoners, than to kill them.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I didn't see the benefit in executing them," he says. The AP interviewed Kotey and another member of the IS cell dubbed "The Beatles" that are believed to have captured, tortured and killed hostages including American journalist James Foley and Western aid workers. The men said the accusations against them were media "propaganda." ___ 6:35 p.m. Two British members of the Islamic State group who allegedly belonged to a cell notorious for the beheading of hostages in northern Syria say that revoking their citizenship denies them a fair trial. The two men are thought to be among four members of the IS cell dubbed "The Beatles" that are believed to have captured, tortured and killed hostages including American journalists and aid workers. They spoke to The Associated Press in an interview from their captivity Friday in northern Syria, the first to a media outlet since their detention. El Shafee Elsheikh and Alexanda Amon Kotey were captured in early January in eastern Syria by the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces. In the interview, they slammed the "audacity" of the British government for its "illegal" decision to strip their citizenship. They did not admit any involvement in hostage-takings or beheadings. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:03 P.M. E.D.T.
 AUGUSTA, Ga. —  A hole-by-hole look at Augusta National, site of the 82nd Masters to be played April 5-8, with famous shots played at each one, the average score and where each hole ranks in difficulty since 1934: No. 1, 445 yards, par 4 (Tea Olive): This slight dogleg right plays uphill and has a deep bunker requiring a 317-yard carry off the tee. The bunker has a tongue in the left side, so anything that enters the front of the bunker might be blocked by the lip. A bunker is left of the green, which falls off sharply at the back and to the right. Masters memory: Charl Schwartzel used a 6-iron to pitch a low-running shot from the right mounds across the green and holed the shot for birdie to begin the final round of his 2011 victory. Average score and rank: 4.24 (6th) ___ No. 2, 575 yards, par 5 (Pink Dogwood): A dogleg left that can be reached in two by the big hitters. A fairway bunker on the right comes into play. A big drive kept down the left side shortens the hole but leaves a downhill lie to a green guarded by two deep bunkers in the front. Masters memory: Louis Oosthuizen hit a 4-iron from 253 yards in the final round of 2012 that landed on the front of the green and rolled some 90 feet into the cup for the first albatross at this hole in Masters history. It took him from a one-shot deficit to a two-shot lead. He went on to lose in a playoff. Advertisement Average score and rank: 4.79 (16th) ___ No. 3, 350 yards, par 4 (Flowering Peach): One of the best short par 4s in golf, this hole hasn't been changed since 1982. Big hitters can drive near the green, but not many try because of all the trouble surrounding the L-shaped green that slopes sharply from right to left. Most players hit iron off tee to stay short of four bunkers on the left side. Advertisement Masters memory: Jeff Maggert was leading in the final round in 2003 when he found a fairway bunker to the left. His shot ricocheted off the face of the bunker and struck him in the chest for a two-stroke penalty. He took triple bogey on the hole and never recovered. Average score and rank: 4.08 (14th) ___ No. 4, 240 yards, par 3 (Flowering Crab Apple): This has become a long iron for big hitters, fairway metal for others. A deep bunker protects the right side of the green, with another bunker to the left. Club selection remains crucial because of the deceptive wind. The green slopes to the front. This hole features the only palm tree on the course. Masters memory: Phil Mickelson was one shot out of the lead in the final round in 2012 when his tee shot hit the grandstand and went into the woods. Lefty played two right-handed shots to get it out, hit his fourth into the bunker and got up-and-down for a triple bogey. He finished two shots behind. Average score and rank: 3.29 (3rd) ___ No. 5, 455 yards, par 4 (Magnolia): An uphill, slight dogleg to the left with two very deep bunkers guarding the left side some 300 yards from the tee. The green slopes severely from back to front, and a small bunker catches anything long. If an approach is long and misses the bunker, it could roll down the slope and into the Magnolia trees. Masters memory: Jack Nicklaus made two eagles in the 1995 Masters, with a 5-iron from 180 yards in the first round and with a 7-iron from 163 yards in the third round. Average score and rank: 4.26 (5th) ___ No. 6, 180 yards, par 3 (Juniper): An elevated tee to a large green with three tiers, with significant slopes marking the three levels. Getting close to the hole is a challenge. The easiest pin might be front left. The hole has not been changed since 1975. Masters memory: Billy Joe Patton, trying to become the first amateur to win the Masters, made a hole-in-one with a 5-iron from 190 yards in the final round in 1954. He missed the playoff between Ben Hogan and Sam Snead by one shot. Advertisement Average score and rank: 3.14 (13th) ___ No. 7, 450 yards, par 4 (Pampas): This hole literally has come a long way, from 320 yards to 450 yards. The tee was extended by 40 yards in 2003, then two years ago, the tee box was lengthened to allow the hole to play shorter if necessary. The tee shot is through a chute of Georgia pines, played to the left-center of the fairway into a slight slope. The green is surrounded by five bunkers, the most around any green. Masters memory: Byron Nelson drove the green in the 1937 Masters for a two-putt birdie when it played at 320 yards. That inspired Augusta National to alter the hole, moving the green back 20 yards and to the right on an upslope and surrounding the green with bunkers. Average score and rank: 4.15 (10th) ___ No. 8, 570 yards, par 5 (Yellow Jasmine): An accurate drive is important to avoid the fairway bunker on the right side. The hole is uphill and features trouble left of the green. There are no bunkers around the green, just severe mounding. Masters memory: Tom Kite and Seve Ballesteros were paired together in the final round in 1986, both in contention. Kite hit a sand wedge from 80 yards that bounced twice and dropped in for his first eagle to get within two shots of the lead. Ballesteros, not the least bit bothered, played a pitch-and-run from 40 yards short of the green and matched his eagle to take the lead. Average score and rank: 4.83 (15th) ___ No. 9, 460 yards, par 4 (Carolina Cherry): The tee shot should be aimed down the right side for a good angle into the green, which features two large bunkers to the left. Any approach that is short could spin some 25 yards back into the fairway. Masters memory: Jack Nicklaus hit 9-iron into 12 feet in 1986 and was ready to putt when he heard back-to-back cheers from behind him on the eighth green. "Why don't we try to make some noise ourselves?" he said to the gallery. He made the birdie putt, and so began his charge to his sixth green jacket. Average score and rank: 4.14 (12th) ___ No. 10, 495 yards, par 4 (Camellia): A long hole that can play shorter if the drive catches the slope in the fairway. It is difficult to save par from the bunker right of the green. The putting surface slopes from right to left. It has played as the most difficult hole in Masters history.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Masters memory: Bubba Watson was deep in the trees to the right of the fairway, 155 yards away, when he played a 40-yard hook with a wedge that landed about 10 feet beneath the hole. He two-putted for par to win the 2012 Masters. Average score and rank: 4.31 (1st) ___ No. 11, 505 yards, par 4 (White Dogwood): Amen Corner starts here. The tee was lengthened by 15 yards in 2006, but some pine trees have been removed on the right side, although the landing area is still tight. A big tee shot — and a straight one — is required to get to the crest of the hill. A pond guards the green to the left and a bunker is to the back right. The safe shot is to bail out short and to the right. Advertisement Masters memory: Larry Mize was in a sudden-death playoff with Greg Norman in 1987 when he missed the green to the right. Mize's 140-foot chip was gaining steam when it dropped in for birdie, giving him the green jacket and dealing another blow to Norman's hopes of winning the Masters. Average score and rank: 4.30 (2nd) ___ No. 12, 155 yards, par 3 (Golden Bell): This is among the most famous par 3s in golf, and the shortest hole at Augusta National. Club selection can range from a 6-iron to a 9-iron, but it's difficult to gauge the wind. Rae's Creek is in front of the shallow green, with two bunkers behind it and one in front. Masters memory: Jordan Spieth hit two balls into Rae's Creek and made a quadruple-bogey 7. He started the back nine Sunday in 2016 with a five-shot lead. Walking to the 13th tee, he was three shots behind. Average score and rank: 3.28 (4th) ___ No. 13, 510 yards, par 5 (Azalea): An accurate tee shot to the center of the fairway sets up players to go for the green. A tributary to Rae's Creek winds in front of the green, and four bunkers are behind the putting surface. From tee to green, there are about 1,600 azaleas. Masters memory: With a two-shot lead in the final round in 2010, Phil Mickelson was in the pine straw behind a pair of trees. He hit 6-iron through a small gap in the pines and over the creek to about 4 feet. He missed the eagle putt but kept his lead and went on to win. Average score and rank: 4.79 (17th) ___ No. 14, 440 yards, par 4 (Chinese Fir): This is the only hole on the course without a bunker. Even if the drive avoids trees on both sides of the fairway, the green has severe contours that feed the ball to the right. Masters memory:  Phil Mickelson holed out for eagle during an eagle-eagle-birdie stretch on Saturday in 2010 that helped him get into the final group. He won his third green jacket the next day. Average score and rank: 4.17 (8th) ___ No. 15, 530 yards, par 5 (Firethorn): A cluster of pines is starting to mature on the right side of the fairway, making it critical to be straight off the tee. The green can be reached in two with a good drive, but a pond guards the front and there is a bunker to the right. Even for those laying up, the third shot requires a precise wedge. Advertisement Masters memory: Gene Sarazen was three shots behind when he hit the "shot heard 'round the world" in 1935. His 4-wood from 235 yards went into the hole for an albatross. He tied Craig Wood and defeated him the next day in a playoff. Average score and rank: 4.78 (18th) ___ No. 16, 170 yards, par 3 (Redbud): The hole is played entirely over water and eventually bends to the left. Two bunkers guard the right side, and the green slopes significantly from right to left. The Sunday pin typically is back and on the lower shelf, and pars from the top shelf that day are rare. Masters memory: Tiger Woods had a one-shot lead over Chris DiMarco when he missed the green long in 2005. He chipped away from the hole up the slope, watched it make a U-turn at the top and roll back toward the hole, pausing for 2 full seconds before dropping for birdie. Average score and rank: 3.15 (11th) ___ No. 17, 440 yards, par 4 (Nandina): The Eisenhower Tree to the left of the fairway about 210 yards from the tee could not be saved from an ice storm in February 2014. It was taken down after suffering significant damage. That has made the tee shot much easier, especially for those with a lower, left-to-right ball flight. The green is protected by two bunkers in the front. Masters memory: Jack Nicklaus made his final birdie in 1986 with a 12-foot putt that sent him to a 30 on the back nine and a 65, giving him a one-shot win and his sixth Masters. The pose Nicklaus struck when the putt dropped is captured in a bronze of him outside his clubhouse at Muirfield Village. Average score and rank: 4.16 (9th) ___ No. 18, 465 yards, par 4 (Holly): Now among the most demanding finishing holes in golf, this uphill dogleg right is protected off the tee by two deep bunkers at the left elbow — the only bunkers in play off the tee on the back nine (except for par 3s). Trees get in the way of a drive that strays to the right. A middle iron typically is required for a green that has a bunker in front and to the right. Masters memory: Sandy Lyle was tied for the lead with Mark Calcavecchia in 1988 when he hit 1-iron in the first of two bunkers down the left side of the fairway. Not thinking he could get on the green, Lyle hit 7-iron over the tall lip and behind the flag, and it rolled back to 10 feet. He holed the putt for birdie to win. Average score and rank: 4.23 (7th) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 7:17 P.M. E.D.T.
 CARSON, Calif. —  Zlatan Ibrahimovic likened himself to Benjamin Button as he played down concerns about what kind of impact he will have on the MLS at the age of 36 by declaring "I was born old and I will die young" during his unveiling at LA Galaxy on Friday. The Swedish striker left Manchester United to join the MLS side in what many believe will be the final stop in an illustrious career which has spanned almost two decades. During this time, he has enjoyed stints with European heavyweights Ajax Amsterdam, Juventus, Inter Milan, Barcelona, AC Milan and Paris St Germain. But just in case fans and pundits thought that Ibrahimovic had turned up in California to get an easy paycheck at the twilight of his career, and without doing much work, he dispelled the suggestion. Advertisement "I feel young, I feel like Benjamin Button. I was born old and I will die young," he said comparing himself to the fictitious character who ages in reverse. Advertisement "Don't worry about my age... When I came to England they all said I was old. I came in a wheelchair and after three months I conquered England. Then they said I was flying." "So I know what I'm able to do, I know what I will do, and I came here to win," added Sweden's all-time leading scorer. Ibrahimovic, who has amassed an Aladdin's cave of silverware that includes 11 league titles in four European countries, is Galaxy's biggest foreign acquisition since David Beckham in 2007. But even though his trophy cabinet is close to bursting, the man who calls himself "a lion" is determined to add some more prizes to his collection while sprinkling some stardust on the MLS.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Tomorrow is a big game and I'm already involved so I feel excited," Ibrahimovic told a news conference ahead of Saturday's match against new cross town rivals Los Angeles FC. "The Lion is hungry." He made himself available to play on Saturday despite working his way back from a knee injury that kept him sidelined for part of his two-year tenure at Manchester United. Ibrahimovic said he has been drawn to Los Angeles for years and had expected to join Galaxy prior to his move to United, but the deal fell through. He said a dinner with Beckham convinced him to make the move. "I was asking him, 'How is it? How was it for him?' And he was only positive," said the Swede. Advertisement "And I just got a message from David that said, 'Just enjoy'." Ibrahimovic said he plans to leave his mark on young soccer fans in Los Angeles who may not be familiar with his career so far. "If they don't know me, I will make sure that they know me," he said with a grin. "I hope I am a good example for them and that they do it, but that they do it even better than me." (Reporting by Rory Carroll, editing by Pritha Sarkar) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:36 A.M. E.D.T.
 TOKYO —  Families of Japanese abducted by North Korea decades ago urged Japan's leader on Friday to persuade U.S. President Donald Trump to help win the abductees' release during a possible summit with North Korea's leader. Trump has said he will meet Kim Jong Un by the end of May, though North Korea hasn't directly commented on a message from a South Korean envoy that Kim wants to meet Trump. Also Friday, a senior Chinese official briefed South Korean President Moon Jae-in in Seoul on the outcome of President Xi Jinping's meeting this week with Kim in Beijing. Moon and Kim are scheduled to meet on April 27. The abductees' families urged Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to seek Trump's help because this could be their last chance to win their loved ones' release. Abe plans to visit the U.S. in April for talks with Trump. Advertisement "Please ask President Trump to discuss (with Kim) how to achieve the abductees' return," Shigeo Iizuka, 79, head of a group representing the families of abduction victims, told Abe. "We would like President Trump to ask Kim Jong Un to make specific arrangements for the abductees to return home." Advertisement Abe promised to do so, saying, "We should not let the abduction issue, which is very important to us, be left behind." Iizuka's younger sister, Yaeko Taguchi, then 22, was kidnapped by North Korean agents in 1978, leaving behind two children — a baby boy and a girl — at a nursery. Iizuka adopted the boy and raised him as his fourth child, and the girl was adopted by an aunt. Taguchi's whereabouts weren't known for nearly a quarter century until North Korea, after years of denials, acknowledged in 2002 abducting 13 Japanese citizens. Japan says North Korea has abducted at least four more Japanese.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. North Korea allowed five of them to visit Japan in 2002 — and they stayed — but said the other eight had died, though their families say what the North said cannot be trusted. North Korea also promised a re-investigation of the eight and set up a committee, but its results were never presented as the North's missile and nuclear threats escalated. Iizuka said he and the other families want Abe to "make use of each upcoming meeting" to achieve the abductees' return. "We see a big chance coming up, and there will be no greater chance than this," he said. In Seoul, Yang Jiechi, a member of the Chinese Communist Party's powerful political bureau who was sent as Xi's special envoy, met with Moon and delivered a detailed explanation of the talks between Xi and Kim, according to Moon's office. The office said Yang confirmed Chinese intentions to "actively cooperate" in seeking the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Yang earlier in the day met with South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-hwa, who said it was encouraging that Kim during his talks with Xi expressed a "firm willingness" for dialogue with Seoul and Washington. Yang told Kang that Beijing hopes the Kim-Xi meeting will prove helpful to the success of talks between Pyongyang, Seoul and Washington, according to Seoul's Foreign Ministry. Ahead of Moon's planned summit with Kim in late April, a group of 160 South Korean musicians is performing in North Korea this Sunday and Tuesday. The group, which includes some of South Korea's biggest pop singers, is to fly to the North on Saturday. ___ Associated Press writer Kim Tong-hyung in Seoul contributed to this story. ___ Find her work at https://www.apnews.com/search/mari%20yamaguchi We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MATTHEW SCHNEIERMARCH 30, 2018
 Haider Ackermann will leave Berluti, the LVMH-owned fashion label and footwear house, the company announced on Friday. Mr. Ackermann had been at the label since September 2016, a short tenure even in the current cyclone of the fashion industry, where designer entrances and exits are common and many contracts are for three-year terms. His departure comes at a moment of upheaval in the men’s wear industry and in particular at LVMH. Within the last three months, the company announced a new designer for its Dior Homme label (Kim Jones, formerly of Louis Vuitton, the LV in LVMH), a new designer for Vuitton (Virgil Abloh) and a new men’s collection for Céline (by its incoming designer, Hedi Slimane, the original designer of Dior Homme). Kris Van Assche, who led Dior Homme for 11 years, is currently without a position. While many designers working in men’s wear today affect an ultracasual style inflected by the success of street wear, Mr. Ackermann is a romantic of a more swashbuckling type. He has an evocative back story — he is Colombian by birth, was adopted by a French cartographer and his wife, raised in Africa and the Netherlands and educated in Belgium — and a durable poetic stripe. (When he accepted the Berluti position, he told The New York Times: “It just felt right. Like having a new lover.”) In 2003, he founded his namesake women’s collection, which he continued throughout his Berluti appointment, and added men’s wear, in the rich, luxurious mold of the women’s, in 2013. 
CreditGuillaume Roujas/Nowafashion         Mr. Ackermann brought much of his own style to Berluti, a footwear label founded in 1895 and family run until LVMH acquired it in 1993, expanding it over time and adding ready-to-wear in 2011, with ambitions to make it into a fully fledged men’s wear brand. Under Berluti’s previous artistic director, Alessandro Sartori, the label emphasized tailored suiting, handmade shoes and, eventually, big-budget sneakers for the unbudgeting man. Advertisement Mr. Ackermann softened the shape, dimmed the lights and dressed women as well as men. If the Berluti label “is a definitive sartorial marker of how the other one-half of 1 percent lives,” as Guy Trebay wrote in The Times in January, that man of the 0.05 percent is now a wandering poet who prefers to style himself as a wandering poet than as a captain of industry. Advertisement Mr. Ackermann found his perfect avatar in Timothée Chalamet, the star of “Call Me By Your Name,” who often wore Berluti over the course of the 2018 awards season, culminating in an all-white tuxedo for the Oscars. Mr. Ackermann called him “little bro”; Mr. Chalamet sat in the front row at his show in January, and told Vogue that Mr. Ackermann was “the closest thing to what is an auteur in fashion.” In a statement, Antoine Arnault, the chief executive of Berluti, thanked Mr. Ackermann. “His feel for materials, colors and his wonderful shows will always be linked to the history of the house,” he wrote. According to the brand, a successor will be named shortly. Executives declined to comment further. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MARC TRACYMARCH 30, 2018
 WASHINGTON — A few hundred high school basketball fans packed the stands or stood on the indoor track that rings the court at the Sidwell Friends School gymnasium on a Friday night in February. It was nearly time for Sidwell’s playoff game against its archrival, Maret School. Sidwell is an elite private school in this city’s Upper Northwest area, known for educating the children of Washington’s power elite. Chelsea Clinton and Malia Obama are graduates. Sasha Obama and a granddaughter of former Vice President Joe Biden attend. It is not known for big-time basketball, though, and neither are any of the six other private schools that compete in the Mid-Atlantic Athletic Conference. (Barron Trump attends St. Andrew’s Episcopal School, another league member.) Yet the students from Maret (pronounced Mah-RAY) were loud and brash that night, and clearly taking the game seriously. “Overrated!” they shouted at Sidwell’s star, Saddiq Bey, as he shot free throws during warm-ups. As the 2018 college basketball season nears its end, Bey is an example of a type of player attending a new kind of high school basketball factory. Advertisement While there are no steady figures available, these schools seem to be producing substantially more highly sought basketball players than they were even a decade ago. Josh Hart, a Sidwell graduate, won a national championship at Villanova and was a college player of the year finalist last year before being picked in the N.B.A. draft’s first round; he is currently on the Los Angeles Lakers. Luka Garza graduated from Maret last year and was one of Iowa’s best players this season as a freshman. Sidwell’s Jelani Williams is a freshman at Penn, which shared the Ivy League title this season. Advertisement And in February’s Sidwell-Maret showdown, stars likely bound for brand-name college basketball programs led each team. “It’s been amazing,” said Bey, a senior, referring to the rousing crowd and school spirit. “I didn’t expect that to happen at a school like this.” The presence of blue-chip basketball players is all the more surprising because these schools emphasize academic prestige over sports. Mascots include the Frogs (Maret), the Quakers (Sidwell) and the Mighty Hoppers, a reference to grasshoppers (Georgetown Day School). Conference rules bar schools from giving out athletic scholarships. Coaches can’t make what is known as “first contact” with recruits; Sidwell’s coaches show up to middle school basketball events dressed in school gear and wait for families to approach them. “The MAC doesn’t get much credit where we are,” said Hart, the Sidwell graduate and Laker. “Some people call it the Wack.” Every member school is coeducational, but the MAC is a boys-only league. (Most of the girls’ teams compete in the Independent School League.) Top players’ presence at these schools illustrates a trend at top private schools everywhere, from Porter-Gaud in Charleston, S.C., to Harvard-Westlake in Los Angeles. Many are seeking to increase their diversity and, given annual tuition fees in the mid five figures and growing endowments, to respond to demands from parents and alumni that they excel in every facet of education. Meanwhile, players and their families are realizing that in an increasingly stratified economy, it pays to think more broadly about the kinds of ends to which basketball can be a means. “More people are seeing sports as an avenue,” Liz Hall, Maret’s athletic director, said. “To get your kid into an academically challenging school automatically helps them for the next step.” Advertisement Bey, who has an easy smile and a modified mushroom haircut courtesy of his mother, is headed to North Carolina State on a basketball scholarship. The Maret junior E. J. Jarvis, a lanky young man who speaks softly but prolifically, has been offered a scholarship by Virginia Tech and several midmajors. Ivy League teams have also shown interest, and he is likely to attract more high-major suitors in the coming months. Many of Maret and Sidwell’s recent stars could have played for more prominent high school basketball teams. The Washington area is a hub of hardcourt talent, and there are several high schools, particularly in the Washington Catholic Athletic Conference, with national reputations. Midway through his high school career, Hart was courted by Montrose Christian, Kevin Durant’s alma mater. Bey transferred from DeMatha, one of the most famous basketball schools in the country. Jarvis considered a W.C.A.C. team before settling on Maret. Thanks to grass-roots basketball, ubiquitous college recruiting and social media, however, exposure is no longer an issue. The days when you had to play for the right team are gone. No matter where the best players go to high school, they play against and with one another all spring and summer on travel teams where college coaches can evaluate them. Bey and Jarvis both chose their unlikely schools knowing they would provide challenging academic preparation while not hindering their basketball careers. “This was a school that was not just an academic school,” Bey said of Sidwell. He said his coach, Eric Singletary, “switched the narrative, saying you could be a powerhouse in both.” He added, “I wanted the opportunity to excel in both.” Bey’s mother, Drewana, has been a high school principal and is currently an officer with the D.C. public schools system. “I’m an educator,” she said. “I’m big on him having a great education.” But if school was important in the Bey household, so was basketball, which Drewana Bey played on scholarship at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte. “When I had him, it was automatic,” she said. “You’re supposed to play sports.” For most of his childhood, Saddiq Bey was of average size, except for his stubbornly large feet. He went to public schools in Maryland and a Montessori school. Advertisement When considering high school, he looked at Maret as well as St. Albans, one of Washington’s most prestigious private schools. He ended up at DeMatha. “A lot of varsity programs were pursuing me, like a lot of my peers and friends,” said Saddiq Bey, who played for D.C. Premier, a top travel program in the area. Sidwell, exclusive and expensive, was not even “on the radar” initially, Drewana Bey said. But during her son’s freshman year at DeMatha, when Williams, the current Penn freshman, was playing for Sidwell, Williams’s father, a family friend, suggested that the Beys take a look at Sidwell and that Singletary, the coach, take a look at Saddiq. “It was like a word-of-mouth kind of thing,” Singletary said. Bey hit it off with the admissions officer with whom he interviewed. Singletary wanted him. Bey swallowed the daily commute from Largo, Md., which can exceed two hours for a round trip, and the Beys, aided by a partial, need-based scholarship, swallowed the tuition.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “I have a doctorate, but there’s no way I would have been able to afford to send Saddiq to Sidwell if we didn’t get financial aid,” Drewana Bey said. Last year, he had an incredible spring season with D.C. Premier, which is sponsored by the apparel giant Under Armour. The offers spilled in. Xavier. Florida. Connecticut. Miami. Drewana Bey recalled getting a text that read, “ND just offered Saddiq,” and thinking: What’s that? North Dakota? It was Notre Dame. Bey settled on North Carolina State, drawn by the coaching staff and the support system. “It was things like, would I go there if I didn’t play basketball?” he said. Jarvis’s Twitter biography contains a telling white lie. It lists his location as Shepherd Park, a Washington neighborhood along 16th Street, near his grandmother’s house. His grandmother, Charlene Drew Jarvis, is a prominent neuroscientist and former city councilwoman representing Shepherd Park’s ward. Her father, Charles R. Drew, was the pioneering African-American doctor who helped revolutionize blood transfusions. The Jarvises, like the Beys, live in the Maryland suburbs. But Jarvis and his younger brother, Jake, attend private schools in Washington. Advertisement In short, E. J. Jarvis identifies as a Washingtonian. His favorite N.B.A. team is the Wizards. At Maret, he takes a class called Mapping Inequity in D.C. Six-foot-eight and possibly still growing, he models himself after the retired San Antonio Spurs star Tim Duncan. “Quiet,” Jarvis said. “Got his rings. His mind-set — he was so calm during the game.” Jarvis transferred to Maret after his freshman year from Landon, an all-boys private school in Bethesda, Md., a sports haven that has one of the country’s best boys’ lacrosse programs. He sought, he said, a more diverse student body and a smaller campus, trading Landon’s rolling suburban hills for Maret’s compact grounds in the shadow of the National Cathedral. His family sought superior academics. “When we made the decision to transfer to Maret, it was really predicated on the academic rigor,” his father, Ernie Jarvis, said, adding, “We have seen through the A.A.U. and high school circuit that you’re one Achilles away from having to pivot and make a career change.” These schools prepare basketball players for college in another way: academically. Garza, the Maret graduate at Iowa, said the transition to college had gone much more smoothly because of how difficult high school had been. E. J. Jarvis did not have to sacrifice much in the basketball arena. His coach, Chuck Driesell — the son of the beloved former University of Maryland coach Lefty — has experience as a Division I head coach, at The Citadel. And if Jarvis shines during what will hopefully be his first injury-free season of summer basketball, no college coach will miss it: He plays for Team Takeover, a Nike-sponsored team known as a factory of future stars. “That’s like the golden ticket,” he said. Basketball does not have the purchase at Maret that it might elsewhere. This does not bother Jarvis. “They definitely engage with the basketball team, but it’s not like the be-all, end-all,” he said of his fellow students. “You get a sort of social status, like a plus. But it’s not a big plus.” Advertisement It seemed like a pretty big plus the night of the Sidwell game, though, particularly when Maret won, 59-56. The Maret students stormed the court, chanting, “This is our house!” At Sidwell, which won last year’s MAC tournament, buzz is already accruing to the junior point guard Jason Gibson. Singletary, Sidwell’s coach, is a Sidwell alumnus. He went on to play for Rice in the 1990s — a harbinger of the trend he would later help usher in. He is also African-American, like Jarvis, Bey and, according to a study from the University of Central Florida, the majority of Division I basketball players. He has seen, he said, how a more expansive outlook — including the notion that Sidwell can be good at basketball in an increasingly competitive league — has made Sidwell a better institution. “Back for me — ’90 to ’93 — the diversity was solid, but I think it has improved,” Singletary said. Singletary wears a Black Lives Matter wristband and urges his athletes, “Don’t be a guest.” Sidwell’s student population is poised to flip to majority minority next year, according to the athletic director, Keith Levinthal. “What I hope it does is expand our appeal,” Singletary said of Sidwell’s sports success. Over the years, he recalled some families thinking the school wasn’t for their boys. One woman who was considering sending her son there, he said, felt the culture at the school might make her son “docile,” take away some of his competitive edge. “Hopefully we’re dispelling some of that,” he said. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page SP3 of the New York edition with the headline: As Top Players Flock to Elite Schools, the Rich Get Better.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 2:42 A.M. E.D.T.
 VANCOUVER, British Columbia —  Defenseman Derrick Pouliot snapped a 1-1 tie with his third goal of the season early in the third period and the Vancouver Canucks defeated the Edmonton Oilers 2-1 Thursday night for their third consecutive win. Sam Gagner also scored for the Canucks, who have won four of their past five games. Connor McDavid scored for the Oilers, who have lost two in a row. Edmonton is 3-2-1 in its past six games. Pouliot gave Vancouver the lead just 2 minutes into the third period. Nikolay Goldobin fed the Canucks defenseman a pass from along the boards. Pouliot skated in on Oilers goalie Cam Talbot, make a deke then scored his first goal in 42 games. Leon Draisaitl had a chance to tie the game on an Oilers power play late in the third, but his shot hit the post. Ryan Strome's slap shot also hit the post after a Canucks giveaway with just over two minutes remaining. Advertisement McDavid's goal was his 41st of the season, giving him an NHL-leading 103 points, leaving him six ahead of Tampa Bay's Nikita Kucherov. McDavid trails Washington's Alex Ovechkin by four goals in the race for the Rocket Richard Trophy. Advertisement Vancouver goaltender Jacob Markstrom stopped 35 shots. He's 4-0-0 in his past four starts. Talbot made 28 saves for the Oilers. Markstrom kept the Canucks in the game with some big stops, including getting a pad on Milan Lucic's shot in the first period. "For me right now it's just a carry-over from the feeling I had in the previous games," Markstrom  said. "I just keep building on it."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. McDavid showed some of his magic on the game's opening goal at 11:33 of the first period. After defenseman Andrej Sekera flipped a puck down the ice, McDavid showed his speed by skating around Gagner then muscled defenseman Michael Del Zotto off the puck. He scored on a shot that hit Markstrom's blocker, went off the post, and into the net. Gagner was also battling the flu Thursday. "When you get stuck on the ice with him (McDavid) it's not funny even when you are feeling 100 percent," Gagner said. "Obviously he's special." The Oilers captain has 14 points (seven goals, seven assists) in his past six games. Gagner earned some redemption by tying the game at 15:14 of the second. Daniel Sedin took a shot from the faceoff circle that Talbot stopped. Gagner, alone at the side of the net, put in the rebound for his third goal in four games. "You never want to be a culprit on a goal-against," Gagner said. "It was a tough one there. I thought the guys battled back really well. It's a nice feeling." Adam Gaudette, the former Northeastern University Husky who recently signed with Vancouver after leading the NCAA with 30 goals and 60 points, played his first NHL game. On his opening shift, he sent a sizzling shot just wide of the Oilers net. NOTES: Gaudette is a finalist for the Hobey Baker Award as the best player in NCAA hockey. ... Henrik Sedin's opening shift of the game was the 30,000th of his career. ... Brendan Gaunce returned to the Canucks lineup after missing 24 games with a foot injury. ... With several Canucks down with the flu, Jake Virtanen was a late scratch. ... The game's first penalty came at 12:33 of the second period when Vancouver's Darren Archibald was called for interference. ... Al Montoya dressed as the Oilers backup goaltender after missing two games with an injury. Advertisement UP NEXT: Oilers: Travel to Calgary on Saturday night. Canucks: Host Columbus on Saturday. ___ More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:54 P.M. E.D.T.
 SEOUL —  Shares of Hyundai Mobis dropped almost 7 percent on Friday, hurt by worries that a proposed restructuring plan would benefit the parent group's controlling family at the cost of the company's shareholders. As a part of auto-to-steel giant Hyundai Motor Group's move to streamline its complex ownership structure, key affiliate Hyundai Mobis is to spin off its domestic module and after-service parts businesses and merge them with logistics firm Hyundai Glovis. The plan will be put to shareholders for approval on May 29, but worries Mobis could be giving away cheaply what is seen as the more profitable part of its business will pose a challenge. Glovis is personally backed by the auto-to-steel group's controlling Chung family, with Chairman Chung Mong-koo holding 6.7 percent and his son, Vice-Chairman Chung Eui-sun, holding 23.3 percent. The chairman has about a 7 percent stake in Mobis. Advertisement Uncertainty over shareholder approval drove down Glovis shares almost 10 percent, on track for their largest daily drop since 2015. The wider market was up 0.8 percent. Advertisement "From the perspective of Mobis shareholders, they are highly likely to vote against the deal, which is disadvantageous to Mobis and beneficial to Glovis," said Lee Jae-il, analyst at Eugene Investment & Securities. "Should the deal collapse, Glovis shares, which rose on expectations of the merger, may lose ground." DOUBTFUL INVESTORS Mobis investors have already said they were not convinced of the deal's benefits to the auto parts maker. Deals that change the ownership structure of South Korean family-run conglomerates, or chaebol, typically attract closer scrutiny by institutional investors since the high-profile union of two Samsung firms in 2015 ran into shareholder opposition.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A merger planned between two Samsung affiliates in 2015 was opposed by U.S.-based hedge fund Elliott that said the deal "significantly undervalues" one of the firms and was not in the interests of the shareholders. The merger was finally approved by shareholders, resulting in Samsung C&T. According to Mobis' presentation to investors, the business earmarked to be spun off had a profit margin of 10.3 percent in 2017, while the rest of Mobis had a margin of 4.7 percent. As part of the restructuring plan, Hyundai Motor Group's chairman and vice chairman will sell their shares in Glovis to buy stakes in Mobis. Affiliates Kia Motors, Glovis and Hyundai Steel will sell their stakes in Mobis. A fund manager noted there were signs in the deal structure that show the management took pains to take into consideration the Samsung merger, but he added it was not enough to convince him as an investor. Advertisement "This is a key business that is being transferred to Glovis ... it's a big hit to the business model itself," the fund manager said, declining to be named as he was not allowed to speak to media. "We expect to vote against the spinoff in order to reserve our right to ask the company to buy out our shares." (Reporting by Hyunjoo Jin and Joyce Lee; Additional reporting by Dahee Kim; Editing by Himani Sarkar) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
MARCH 30, 2018
 Subscribe: iTunes | Google Play Music Luis Alberto Urrea talks about his new novel, “The House of Broken Angels,” and Martin Doyle discusses “The Source: How Rivers Made America and America Remade Its Rivers.” Luis Alberto Urrea’s new novel, “The House of Broken Angels,” his eighth, is perhaps his most personal. “I didn’t intend to write this book,” he says on this week’s podcast. “But my brother, my eldest brother, Juan, died after a long time wrestling with cancer.” Urrea’s family decided to give Juan his “last birthday party on earth,” an event that inspired the 70th birthday party for Big Angel, the dying patriarch of the de La Cruz family in “The House of Broken Angels.” The novel is also deeply political. “The subtitle of the book should be ‘Go to Hell, Donald,’” Urrea says, “because I couldn’t any longer take all the rhetoric, I couldn’t any longer take all the ‘build-the-wall’ propaganda or the ‘bad hombres’ and all of the damage and harm and heartbreak this course in American politics is taking in people’s lives on a daily basis.” He felt it was time “to make everything about this book, I hoped, a poke in the eye to all the people who have these insane anti-immigrant angers.” This message is resonating; at readings to promote the book, many people have approached Urrea crying. “I don’t really know how to respond to it,” he says, “I’m hugging a lot of people. Every night, my jacket smells like 14 perfumes and seven after-shaves. People want hugs.” Also on this week’s podcast, Martin Doyle talks about “The Source: How Rivers Made America and America Remade Its Rivers”; Alexandra Alter has news from the publishing world; and Lauren Christensen, Gregory Cowles and Tina Jordan catch up on what they’re reading. Pamela Paul is the host. Advertisement Here are the books mentioned in this week’s “What We’re Reading”: “Ulysses” by James Joyce “Daniel Deronda” by George Eliot “The Italian Party” by Christina Lynch Advertisement “Fire and Fury” by Michael Wolff We would love to hear your thoughts about this episode, and about the Book Review’s podcast in general. You can send them to books@nytimes.com. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a pre-loaded app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “Inside The New York Times Book Review” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a pre-loaded app called “Play Music” with an orange-and-yellow icon. 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series, and select it from the list of results. You might have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
On Washington  By                     
 CARL HULSE
 
MARCH 30, 2018
 WASHINGTON — President Trump insisted he will never again sign a huge catchall spending measure of the sort he just grudgingly approved to fund the government. But he will probably have little choice if he wants to keep the government open in the future. The steady deterioration of the congressional appropriations process makes it extremely unlikely that this president, or any future president, will ever receive the annual spending bills the old-fashioned way — one or two at a time with the opportunity to reconcile policy disputes with Congress without shutting down the entire government. Given the current state of political warfare and congressional dysfunction, the too-big-to-veto omnibus bill seems here to stay, absent some momentous change in culture and process. “There is no way around it,” acknowledged Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania and a veteran member of the House Appropriations Committee. Advertisement One main reason for the pessimistic outlook is that the Senate, for various political and logistical reasons, has essentially given up on the time-honored method of considering individual spending bills on the floor after they have been hashed out in committee. Advertisement The threat of a slew of politically charged amendments, the need for 60 votes to move any spending legislation and the reluctance of the leadership to devote the necessary floor time to debate the bills have effectively ended public review of the 12 annual spending bills by the full Senate. What that means is that most senators have no real opportunity to try to influence the individual spending measures and are instead presented with the take-it-or-leave-it choice they faced last week when they could either vote for a 2,232-page, $1.3 trillion spending measure with many provisions they supported — notably a big increase in Pentagon spending — or balk and be responsible for shutting down the government. Those options left many lawmakers dissatisfied, including some of those most closely involved in writing the legislation. “I would rather we brought these bills to the floor one at a time,” said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri and a member of the spending panel, who lamented the packaging of the bills. “It didn’t used to be that way. It has been that way for about 10 years now. It needs to stop. Every member needs to have a right to be able to amend these bills, to bring them to the floor one or two at a time, have a real debate.” Congressional leaders say they don’t like jamming the spending bills through en bloc, but there are real incentives for them to continue to do so because it concentrates considerable power in their hands. Top Republican and Democratic leaders were able to cut some of the most significant deals in the legislation among themselves behind closed doors. The current process empowers both the leadership and the members of the appropriations committees, some of whom believe they are accumulating too much clout at the expense of rank-and-file opinion. “This is one area where the breakdown of the regular order doesn’t serve the country or the Congress very well,” said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, a senior Republican member of the Appropriations Committee. What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Another obstacle in the appropriations process for Mr. Cole and his fellow Republicans has been the refusal of some of their most conservative colleagues to back any spending bills because of their opposition to the amounts or to the individual provisions. Advertisement That requires Republicans to compromise with Democrats to find the votes to pass the must-pass bills both in the House and the Senate, thus providing Democrats huge leverage they exerted very successfully in the recent clash by remaining unified. Democrats could not have been happier with the spending legislation that Mr. Trump signed while holding his nose. “If you would have told me that with a Republican president, Republican House and Republican Senate we would have done as well as we’ve done, I would have laughed at you,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. He went on to say that spending gains for Democratic priorities under President Trump exceeded those under President Barack Obama. “Once Republicans did the tax bill with a huge deficit, their ostensible reason for not liking domestic spending — the deficit — vanished,” he said. Aides to Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader — and a veteran appropriator himself — said he still preferred the old-fashioned way of considering the bills. He will now be under substantial pressure from disgruntled senators to make that happen. “There are a lot of people upset, and understandably so,” said Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, who said Republicans needed to do whatever necessary to force debate on the spending bills, even if it meant extended sessions that left lawmakers exhausted. “We have allowed the power to accumulate and be vested in just a few people.” Restless lawmakers demanding more opinion may get some help from a change in the committee’s leadership with the departure of Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, the ailing chairman. Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama and the incoming chairman, has been assuring colleagues that he wants to return to the old ways of bringing individual bills to the floor — though floor time is ultimately apportioned by Mr. McConnell. Advertisement With overall spending levels already set for the coming year in a two-year budget compromise, the Appropriations Committees can get an early start on drafting their bills, potentially providing the House and Senate more debate time. In addition, a special committee has been created to recommend ways to fix the budget and appropriations process, putting pressure on lawmakers to show they can still deliver. Many lawmakers believe the increasingly elusive “regular order” is still the best way to go. “I just long for the old days,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine and a longtime appropriator. But the bad spending habits of Congress have become deeply ingrained and have provided significant advantages for some at the top of the congressional food chain. Breaking out of them could prove impossible, and Mr. Trump would find himself presented yet again with the exact type of legislation he vowed to reject. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Economic View  By                     
JUSTIN WOLFERS

MARCH 30, 2018
 Corporate tax cuts will put billions of dollars back in the hands of businesses this year. Naturally, people want to know how those businesses will spend it. But the answer doesn’t really matter, at least not for understanding whether the tax cuts were a good idea. That’s because the economic case for corporate tax cuts has almost nothing to do with what corporations do with the extra cash. Economists generally recognize that corporate tax cuts have two quite distinct effects. First, a tax cut increases the incentive to invest. A lower corporate tax rate gives investors in a new factory a larger share of the income that factory generates. And that in turn leads more investment projects to pass the cost-benefit test that tells a company whether it’s worth building the factory in the first place. This incentive effect drives most economic models of investment, and few economists debate its underlying logic, although there’s considerable debate as to whether it will yield a large or small increase. Advertisement Second, a tax cut showers extra cash on companies. That cash largely comes from companies that are suddenly paying a lower tax rate on profits earned from past investments. This windfall has a big effect on the distribution of income, with billions of dollars going to owners of capital at the expense of taxpayers. But few economists believe that this cash transfusion will do much to bolster future investment, because the profitability of a new capital project depends on future revenues and expenses, not on how much cash a company has lying around. Advertisement As Alan Viard, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, has written: “The economic case for corporate tax rate reduction is not based on how companies ‘use’ their tax savings. It is based on how companies change their behavior in order to obtain larger tax savings.” Yet the early debate about whether the tax cut is working has barely focused on the incentive effect, tracking instead what companies are doing with their cash windfalls. Mr. Trump boasts that he’s put more money in the hands of corporations and that they are using it to give bonuses to their workers. Many critics counter that the recent spike in stock buybacks shows the money isn’t going to anything useful like financing new investments. Both of these arguments are beside the point. They’re based on flawed reasoning that says businesses invest only when they’ve got the cash on hand to pay for it. It’s wrong because companies with profitable investment opportunities can usually find ways to finance them, whether by borrowing from the bank, issuing stock or bonds, or taking on strategic partners. (Cash is especially helpful for smaller companies that find it difficult to borrow, or for projects where outside investors fear being exploited, but these effects are likely to be small.) The big mistake is to assume that what’s scarce is cash. The reality is that profitable investment opportunities are scarce. What can we learn from the recent surge in stock buybacks, in which companies buy back their own shares, effectively returning their spare cash to shareholders? Advertisement Quite possibly, nothing, as far as the merit of the tax cuts goes. Standard economic theories suggest buybacks would occur whether or not the tax cuts succeed at stimulating investment.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Here’s why. The tax cut showers cash on corporations indiscriminately, not just on those with great investment ideas. Some companies now have extra cash but no ideas to spend it on. For them, the best response is to return the money to shareholders, through higher dividends and stock buybacks. Whether that money will bolster the economy depends on what shareholders do with these unused funds. Say the tax bill is a success and it leads companies to find many new investment opportunities. Shareholders will be eager to use their newly-returned funds to finance those companies with the most profitable projects. In this happy version, the buybacks channel money from firms with few profitable investment opportunities to those with better prospects. Investment rises and the economy grows more rapidly. Alternatively, the tax bill could be a bust, for several possible reasons. Perhaps lower taxes don’t lead companies to invest more. Maybe rising government debt results in higher interest rates, countering the investment incentives created by the new tax code. Whatever the cause, if the tax bill fails to create new investment opportunities, shareholders won’t reinvest their funds. In either scenario — both when the bill’s proponents are right and when they’re wrong — stock buybacks are common. John Cochrane, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, has described the idea that buybacks yield any worthwhile judgment about the efficacy of the tax law as “the buyback fallacy.” The broader lesson is that it’s worth paying greater attention to what actually happens to investment, and less to cash flows and buybacks. Finally, what should we make of Mr. Trump’s boasts that his corporate tax cuts are responsible for companies announcing bonuses for their workers? Kent Smetters — a professor at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, and a Treasury official in President George W. Bush’s administration — found Mr. Trump’s reasoning unimpressive. In the short run, giving more money to corporations helps only the owners of corporations. The benefits trickle down to workers over many years, as tax cuts first increase investment, eventually intensifying competition among firms looking for workers to operate newly-purchased machinery and other capital equipment, ultimately raising wages. Advertisement Instead, Mr. Smetters suggested that these carefully-timed bonus announcements were a “gratuitous payback for President Trump,” from opportunistic chief executives looking to be seen “patting him on the back.” Mr. Smetters noted that the incentive to grant pay rises hasn’t risen, but the incentive to make Trump-friendly corporate announcements probably has. Neither stock buybacks nor bonus announcements say much about whether the tax bill is working. That remains an open question. It’s simply too early to tell. Justin Wolfers is a professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan. Follow him on Twitter: @justinwolfers. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By GIA KOURLASMARCH 30, 2018
 “These are very simple moves,” Carmen de Lavallade told members of Dance Theater of Harlem recently. The young women gathered around her, soaking up every word and gesture that she had to offer, were transfixed by her hands. For this moment in “Dougla,” Geoffrey Holder’s celebrated 1974 ballet that she is helping to revive for the company, she fanned her elegant fingers — in the mesmerizing way that she does most everything. “Simple things are the hardest,” said Ms. de Lavallade, the 87-year-old dancer, actress, choreographer and widow of Holder. “You think, ‘Oh, it’s just there.’ No. It’s not. It’s very difficult. Everything has to speak. You have to be precise. The more you stretch your fingers, it looks like they’re blossoming.” The dancers tried it a few times until their wrists softened and upturned fingers splayed and danced like hers. “Oh, my gosh,” Ms. de Lavallade said approvingly. “What a difference.” “Dougla” is a ballet that blossoms too, a kaleidoscope of costume, color and choreography that depicts the ritual and beauty of a wedding ceremony of a Dougla couple — a mixed couple in which one partner is of African and the other of Indian descent. Advertisement In “Dougla,” sweeping skirts for both women and men, designed by Holder, matter as much as the choreography. “We don’t see pageantry very often,” Ms. de Lavallade said in an interview before a recent rehearsal. “Geoffrey was a master at it. It’s like watching a painting move.” Advertisement Holder, who was born in Trinidad and died at 84 in 2014, was a force in the form of a dancer, choreographer, actor, composer, designer and painter. (You might also remember him from the Uncola 7-Up commercials of the 1970s and ’80s.) He met Ms. de Lavallade when they were cast in Harold Arlen’s “House of Flowers,” a Broadway musical that featured a wealth of important figures in the dance world, including Alvin Ailey, Louis Johnson and Arthur Mitchell, who was a founder of Dance Theater in 1969. “Dougla” hasn’t been performed by the professional company since 2004, the year that the company went on hiatus because of financial difficulties. Reviving “Dougla” for Dance Theater’s season at New York City Center, beginning April 4, has been a group effort, masterminded by Ms. de Lavallade and her son, Leo Holder, 61, who is supervising the production. Former Dance Theater members have helped: Along with Kellye Saunders and Keith Saunders — ballet masters with the company — Donald Williams and Charmaine Hunter have worked with the cast. Tania León’s shimmering, percussive score, created with Holder, will be performed live, and Dance Theater will be joined by guests from Collage Dance Collective. There are soloist roles — namely the bride and the groom — but the ballet, featuring 25 dancers, achieves its power through unison scenes in which the classical body must become more grounded by using fluid hips and an open chest to dig inside the music’s driving pulse. In “Dougla,” a grand and earthy mainstay of Dance Theater’s repertory for years, repetition is used in abundance as dancers — and their costumes — spin in sync. There are details from Indian dance that crop up, in facial expressions and in vibrating fingers, and the dancers possess a sense of majesty. “There’s nothing like a big group that is just absolutely together,” Ms. de Lavallade said. “You cannot be yourself. You have to be like one person.” Ms. de Lavallade wasn’t involved in the creation of the ballet, but she said: “I remember him working on this and running out and getting the materials. Just like when he worked on ‘Timbuktu.’ There wasn’t a piece of lamé left in New York City.” Holder directed, choreographed and designed the costumes for “Timbuktu,” a 1978 musical. (He also directed and designed the costumes for “The Wiz,” which won him Tonys in both categories in 1975.) In the case of “Dougla,” Ms. de Lavallade said: “There were different versions. It kept changing. Things do that. We’re putting back certain things from the first and rearranging. Not that much — just little bits and pieces. It’s like a hunt to put it back together.” Despite those nips and tucks, Leo Holder said the revival is completely derived from his father’s ballet. “There’s nothing there that isn’t of him,” he said. Advertisement Mr. Holder, who designs graphics and scenery for movies and television, has been consumed with organizing his parents’ archives in recent months. “I’m basically here to provide context and to make sure that the choreographer is still in the house,” he said with a laugh. He didn’t want “Dougla” to be seen as a museum piece. In order for it to live for a new generation of dancers, Mr. Holder brought a hefty object for each of them to hold: a silver-and-turquoise ring that belonged to his father. “I wanted them to understand what kind of force created this particular piece,” said Mr. Holder, whose father was a towering 6-foot-6 with a melodious, booming voice. “The person who wore that ring was not 5-foot-2 and sitting in a corner. When those lights go up, they have to be that grand.” The show-and-tell worked. “The ring was huge,” said Anthony Santos, who plays the groom. “The first thing that came into my mind was, how was this man walking around with this big ring on his finger?” It helped him both to imagine Holder and to grasp the majesty of the ballet. “The groom has a solo and he comes out and the first thing he does is flip the cape off of him,” Mr. Santos said. “It lets you know that he’s a warrior. He knows he deserves his bride.” Ingrid Silva, who plays the bride, performed “Dougla” as a member of the Dance Theater of Harlem ensemble in 2008. She said she knows there’s expectation in presenting such a large ballet that is so closely connected to the original Dance Theater, but she sees it as a way to reach future generations. “That gives it a lot of weight,” Ms. Silva said. “I didn’t have that before.” And Ms. de Lavallade, as a coach, is trying to make it personal for the dancers. After a rehearsal, Mr. Santos recalled that she told him, “‘This is your solo. So when you’re dancing it, yes, you’re dancing it for us, but we’re here to watch you.’ She’ll say something and it’s so simple but it resonates throughout the room — everyone gets back up and it’s like, all right — let’s do this for real this time.” She helps them with focus, with projection — qualities that are essential in displaying Holder’s pageantry. “It’s a different kind of energy,” Ms. De Lavallade said. “You have to sustain the movements — to make them reach the back of the hall or to fill the space, you have to work together. You have to put yourself in the position of where are you? In your mind, you’re in this village or wherever you want to be. It’s like an actor: You can’t just say the words.” But bringing the choreographic machine that is “Dougla” to life depends on more than projection. It’s everything working together at once. “The costumes are talking too,” Ms. de Lavallade said. “They’re dancing, you are dancing, the music is just divine and it’s very exciting. I love dancing costumes. The skirts are singing, and everybody’s got to be on the same note.” Follow Gia Kourlas on Twitter:@giakourlas. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page AR19 of the New York edition with the headline: For a Holder Revival, It’s a Family Affair.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By CANDACE JACKSONMARCH 30, 2018
 When Ziad Ghandour was planning to build a dream house for his family in Los Angeles he decided to go big — really big. At 35,500 square feet, the home would be one of the largest in a city filled with large homes. Now, nearly a decade and $20 million later, Mr. Ghandour said his dream house has turned out to be a nightmare. Construction began in 2012 and was supposed to take two years to complete. Mr. Ghandour said it ended up taking nearly five, and the original cost of $13 million grew by an additional $7 million. Fixing the remaining structural and cosmetic problems, he said, could run in the millions on top of that. “The meter is still running.” The tale of Mr. Ghandour’s home illustrates how typical problems with contractors — missed deadlines and cost overruns — are not limited to those with small projects or tight budgets. Finding a contractor with appropriate expertise is a universal problem for home projects of all sizes, although Mr. Ghandour admits that he may have erred when he decided to use a commercial builder without experience in high-end custom homebuilding. Around 2016, as the home was nearing completion, Mr. Ghandour said he started to realize that in addition to numerous delays and a blown budget, “you could tell this would be a botched job.” He said problems ranged from the home’s appearance to water leaks and basic structural concerns. Still, he and his family moved into the home in early 2017. Advertisement And that’s when even more problems became apparent, Mr. Ghandour said. During the Bel Air fires last fall, he said soot seeped through various cracks, making the indoor air quality so bad that he, his wife and three children had to decamp to a hotel for several days, even though the house wasn’t in a mandatory evacuation zone. Advertisement Mr. Ghandour said he had paid a premium to have a near hospital-grade HEPA air-filtration system installed since his 13-year-old daughter was born with special needs that include respiratory problems. The system was supposed to keep unfiltered outside air from entering the home. More frequently, whenever it rains, Mr. Ghandour said there are several rooms that have water leaks, including an HVAC room with sensitive electronic equipment. The house, which is divided into three separate structures, includes a building that was designed to hold a sauna, steam room and showers. Mr. Ghandour said the leaking is so bad in that building that it sits unfinished and entirely empty. Back in 2009, when planning for the project began, Mr. Ghandour, the founder of a Los Angeles-based venture capital firm, said he interviewed four contractors and ultimately decided to take the unusual step of hiring a commercial builder after being approached by a well-known company. He said they sold him on the idea that they would be perfect for the job because a home as large as his wouldn’t be like building a typical single-family house. So why hire a typical homebuilder? Plus, the exterior his architect designed would have more in common with an office building or commercial space. The company he hired was Lendlease, best known for its construction work on high-profile projects like the National September 11 Memorial & Museum at the World Trade Center, the Sydney Opera House in Australia and the Petronas Twin Towers skyscrapers in Malaysia. “Lendlease sold me on that they’d be able to translate that experience into high-end homes,” Mr. Ghandour said. Though representatives of Lendlease told him they hadn’t yet built any comparable luxury homes, Mr. Ghandour said he was assured that his project would get special attention because it would be their first. “They said, ‘We’ll start a new line of business and this will be the showcase, the showpiece,’” he said. Lendlease declined to comment on Mr. Ghandour’s characterization of its proposal or confirm whether the company had previously built any luxury homes of that scale. A spokeswoman said the company has built more than 400 residential projects, mostly in military master-planned sustainable communities for the Department of Defense. Mr. Ghandour said he pleaded with Lendlease to get its subcontractors to fix various problems along the way. At one point, he said, Lendlease stopped responding, so he hired a high-profile construction lawyer, Robert Mann, to pursue a legal claim against Lendlease in 2016. He wants the company to pay for the necessary repairs he has made, plus other damage he still needs to fix. “What I was hoping for them from the beginning was that they’d just do a good job,” Mr. Ghandour said. “And if they didn’t do that, then they’d fix whatever wasn’t done right.” Advertisement Representatives from Lendlease said they were unable to comment on any of Mr. Ghandour’s claims because the case is now in binding arbitration. “We disagree with Mr. Ghandour’s claims and regret that the matter has gone this far without resolution,” the company said in a statement. Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mr. Ghandour said the company did attempt to fix some issues, to no avail. An exterior stucco wall, for example, was meant to look smooth but instead has the look of crumpled paper that has been somewhat flattened. Mr. Ghandour said Lendlease’s subcontractor unsuccessfully attempted to fix it four times. Other areas of the house could be even harder to repair. A large room at the top of the stairs was framed crookedly, six inches out of square, said Mr. Mann, the lawyer. Mr. Ghandour said he didn’t notice the error until the room’s hardwood floors had been laid down and there was a gap that required an awkward triangular piece to fill. Now “it basically can’t be fixed” without reframing the building, Mr. Mann said. He also said the home’s drywall was of a low-quality finish more commonly found in tract homes or lower-end commercial buildings. Replacing it would be extremely costly and would likely require Mr. Ghandour and his family to move out for several months. Mr. Ghandour said the toll on his family life has been “devastating.” During construction, he moved his family four times, signing short-term leases after receiving assurances that he would be able to move into his home soon. By the time the property was cleared for occupancy, his oldest daughter had gone away to college. He said the stress of the project also took a toll on his marriage. “We’re still patching it back together,” he said. Jason Kellogg, a South Florida-based construction litigation lawyer who isn’t involved in Mr. Ghandour’s case, said the recent boom in mega-mansion building has prompted a growing number of inexperienced builders to try to get into the business. Though very large homes are in some ways similar to commercial structures, he said, mega-mansions are still best handled by contractors who have experience building large residences. Because “once problems start,” he said, “they become immensely costly.” For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page RE1 of the New York edition with the headline: When Mega-Mansions Have Mega-Problems.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 

Dien Huynh

 
VIETNAM '67
MARCH 30, 2018
 Go Cong, South Vietnam — 1970 A few months into 10th grade, I began to find it hard to pay attention to my homework. I was distracted by the radio and the news about the war. My town was just south of Saigon, near the coast. I was so scared, confused and disillusioned; I started thinking that when I finished my high school diploma I would be 18 and would have no choice but to enlist in the Army of the Republic of Vietnam, or face the prospect of being drafted. If I did it right, I would end up a first lieutenant — not a great prospect in a war where young, lower-ranking officers were dying at an unbelievably high rate. I had seen many of my high school friends ahead of me not make it through the first six months of combat after graduating from the Thu Duc Military Academy. By the middle of the school year, I decided to write a letter to the principal asking to have my report cards and high school documents, so that I could submit them to the Air Force academy. I wanted to become a helicopter mechanic. After I passed the physical test and the written entry exam, the Air Force issued me an acceptance paper good until the end of the year. That winter was the last time I celebrated the New Year with my family. Phu Cat — 1972 to 1975 In the summer of 1972, I received a diploma and was assigned to work on CH-47 Chinooks, big twin-rotored cargo helicopters. I was sent to Phu Cat Air Base in central Vietnam, which had been full of American troops until their recent return to the United States. For the United States, the war was ending; for us, it continued. Advertisement My unit’s job was to support ground troops fighting North Vietnamese Army units in the Central Highlands, near the border with Laos. On the first day out to work on the runway, we had to carry M-16s and wear helmets, because the N.V.A. was close enough to drop mortar shells on us from nearby hills. The attacks happened every morning, while we were out there getting the helicopters ready for their missions — working under fire like that became our daily routine. Even worse, sometimes I would have to fly on the helicopters during the missions, often taking fire as we flew close over the mountains. After six months I got my first two-week vacation. I went home to visit my family and had second thoughts about going back. Con Son Island and the Midway — 1975 On April 28, 1975, I went back to the air base after overextending my four-day leave. Military police officers immediately handcuffed me and locked me in a cell. I remembered that the last time I said goodbye to my girlfriend, her oldest sister told me that whatever happened they would try to go to the main gate of the base and wait for me there. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. On April 29, around 2 a.m., as I was sleeping, military police officers opened the door and threw four helicopter pilots into my cell. I asked them what was going on. They said they got caught trying to steal airplanes. I was puzzled. Then they told me that the war was fast coming to an end, and we were losing: The N.V.A. had already taken over most of the cities, and they were marching to Saigon, the capital. Early the next morning, the police came in, opened the jail cells, gave us all our IDs and left in a hurry. I thought about what my girlfriend’s sister had said, so I ran toward to the main gate. As I got closer to the gate, I could see Air Force security and military police with tanks and guns trying to prevent people outside from coming to the base. It was like a war zone; they were shooting at each other. I dropped to the ground to avoid being shot, then crawled and crouched to get to the gate. The gunfire continued. People were running in all directions, panicked and scared. I couldn’t find my girlfriend or her family. Advertisement Around 11 a.m., a radio announcement came over the loudspeakers. Saigon had fallen. Then things really got out of control. Soldiers ripped off their uniforms, grabbing whatever civilian clothes they could find. Intelligence personnel burned their documents. I saw overloaded helicopters hover and crash, with people coming out bloodied, badly injured. Smoke came from the runway. I didn’t know what to do. I ran toward the hangars and bumped into the pilot who was in the jail cell with me the previous night. We ran down to the end of the runway and jumped into an empty UH-1 “Huey” helicopter. As soon as we started the engine, about 20 guys jumped on. The weight was too much; we could barely hover at 10 feet. Fortunately there was another Huey parked nearby, and half of us jumped in and took off. Airborne, we flew out to the sea, like birds escaping a net. I would not set foot in Vietnam again for almost 20 years. We landed on an island called Con Son, where the South Vietnamese government incarcerated political prisoners. There were some high-ranking Air Force officials there; they had arrived the night before from Saigon with their families. We refueled and made a plan. We sent two of the several Hueys on the island to look for an American aircraft carrier, which was stationed farther out in the South China Sea. While we waited, we met the newly freed prisoners; in exchange for some money and jewelry, they fed us lunch with food they had grown on the island. They had no idea what had just happened in Saigon. A few hours later, the Hueys returned — they had found the carrier. There were Chinooks on the island as well, and we all boarded them and flew east. I sat in the tail, with a headset, and listened in on the radio. Vietcong operatives had found our transmissions, and a female voice kept calling us, pleading with us to come back to Saigon, saying that our families were waiting for us, that our country would take us back with open arms and big rewards. I could hear the pilots arguing in the cockpit. They had in fact left their families behind. Suddenly I felt the helicopter turn around. I screamed into the headset: “No, no, we can never trust them! All those words are just lies! We all will be caught and sent to jail! Maybe executed!” Finally they turned back around, and we tried to catch up with our group. A few minutes later, we arrived at the aircraft carrier Midway. As we approached, I saw one Chinook and a couple of Hueys floating upside down in the water near the ship. I thought some of us had missed the landing and crashed. The flight deck below us was crowded with people, planes and helicopters. We had to circle for a while, but eventually the deck crew allowed us to land. As soon as we were out, crewmen took away our helmets, headphones and handguns, and directed the passengers off the flight deck. Then a group of us helped them push the Chinook off the side into the water to make room for more. Advertisement I watched it bob in the water. For a moment I felt lost. Then I turned and followed the line of refugees filing into the ship, as the sun faded on the horizon. Dien Huynh, a veteran of the Army of the Republic of Vietnam, lives in New York. Subscribe to the Vietnam &apos;67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 2:00 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Who needs "One Shining Moment" when you've got Sister Jean? The 98-year-old nun who has become the face of this most-inspiring NCAA Tournament held court on Good Friday in one of the best-attended news conferences ever held at the Final Four. Hundreds of reporters and cameramen jammed in, elbow-to-elbow, in an interview room that would normally draw two dozen journalists for a player. "I walked by, and I thought it looked like Tom Brady at the Super Bowl," Loyola-Chicago coach Porter Moser said. It was more monumental than that. This was the No. 1 fan of Moser and the Ramblers — the 11th-seeded team whose magical, miraculous run to the cusp of the title would've made for great theater, even without a nun. Advertisement Sister Jean Dolores-Schmidt has added a completely new, unexpected and, yes, wonderful twist to the proceedings. Her 15-minute Q&A on the eve of Loyola's game against Michigan illustrated precisely why. Advertisement She fielded questions about everything from whether God cares about basketball — "more the NCAA than the NBA" — some light trash talk with former Michigan star Jalen Rose's 100-year-old grandma — "Somebody said, 'Maybe you need a pair of boxing gloves' and I said, 'Well, we'll see what happens'" — and what it takes to really have your prayer heard — "God always hears, but maybe He thinks it's better for us to do the 'L' instead of the 'W,' and we have to accept that." A lot has changed, Sister Jean says, since the Ramblers last made history — back in 1963 when they completed an equally unexpected run by knocking off Cincinnati for the national championship. "I watched it on a little 11-inch black-and-white TV, and the game was (tape) delayed," she said. "And then everybody got out of the house and walked down the line on Sheridan Road, men and women together." Sister Jean has been on a whirlwind since the Ramblers started this unexpected return to the college basketball promised land. That this is all happening on Easter weekend makes it that much more hectic. But, as she has shown time and again over the past three weeks, sports and religion really can mix, so long as you keep everything in perspective. "We're having a university Mass together on Easter Sunday," she said. "You know, I said Easter Sunday because we hope to stay, and we're confident enough we will." Sister Jean is far from the only Catholic going for glory at this Final Four. On the other side of the bracket, the Catholic school, Villanova, is represented by Rev. Rob Hagan — aka Father Rob — who told The Associated Press the matchup is "kind of like fighting with your brothers and sisters. We're all in the same family."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Michigan coach John Beilein used a question posed to him about Sister Jean to remind folks that he, like the Loyola-Chicago players, is a product of a Jesuit education. Advertisement "And I had a priest, not even at my own parish, stop Mass and say, 'They have Sister Jean, you have everybody here praying for you,'" Beilein said. "It's been a lot of fun and it's great." Not that this mix of sports and religion is particularly groundbreaking. Players thank God all the time, and more often than not, their prayers and thanks go largely ignored by the mainstream media and the fans. But college basketball is going through some rough times these days, filled with dirty coaches and agents, payoffs to players and an FBI investigation that has unmasked corruption in many corners of the game. Change is coming. Sister Jean's presence has reminded everyone that the game is about more than slam dunks, busted brackets, big money and the glossy "One Shining Moment" video that wraps things up at the end. "It's just cool that everybody in the world knows who she is now, and they're starting to get to see how cool she is and how amazing she is," Ramblers guard Clayton Custer said. On Friday, Sister Jean's 15 minutes of fame was just that: 15 minutes, and then it was time to move onto the day's regularly scheduled menu of interviews with coaches and players. But she was having a grand time. "I could stay for an hour," she said. Spending an hour talking hoops with a nun? Nary a soul objected. ___ AP Sports Writers Dan Gelston and Stephen Hawkins contributed to this report. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Crime  By                     
MARILYN STASIO

MARCH 30, 2018
 The little guys always have their day in Martha Grimes’s witty mysteries featuring Detective Superintendent Richard Jury. In THE KNOWLEDGE (Atlantic Monthly, $26), honors go to the London cabbies who have an encyclopedic grasp of the city’s highways and byways, called (of course) “the knowledge.” They also have exclusive use of a pub with the same name (“unlocatable: untraceable, unfindable, unmappable”). Robbie Parsons is one of the “knowledge boys,” but he might not live to make the best use of his skills. When we first meet him, his latest fare has just shot two people to death at the door of an exclusive gambling club, then jumped into Robbie’s cab and demanded to be taken to Waterloo Station. Whatever Robbie was expecting at the end of this tense trip, it wasn’t a big tip and a compliment on his driving. But that’s the way it is with Grimes: Great characters who say and do the most unexpected things are her stock in trade. The charmer here is 10-year-old Patty Haigh (“looks like a little girl, but acts like MI6”), one of a group of loosely parented children who hang around the stations at Waterloo and Heathrow, practicing the skills needed to be cops. Patty even talks her way into a first-class seat on a plane to Nairobi by attaching herself to the murderer she’s pursuing. “For someone who shoots people,” she acknowledges, “he was pretty nice.” Meanwhile, Grimes’s irresistibly attractive Scotland Yard man is busy solving the murder of his newly acquired friends David Moffit, an American astronomer, and his wife, Rebecca. With enthusiastic assistance from his wealthy friend Melrose Plant and Plant’s fellow drinkers at the Jack and Hammer pub, Jury manages to have multiple sets of eyes on his suspect. But our eyes are glued to Patty, off in Africa and having the time of her life. ♦ What’s that smell? The acrid odor of fire is always cause for alarm in the mysteries C. J. Box sets in heavily forested Wyoming. But there’s something strange about the odor that’s coming from the burner at a lumber mill in THE DISAPPEARED (Putnam, $27), “something that smelled a little like roast chicken.” Wylie Frye, the night manager, recognizes the peculiar stench, but for $2,500 he can take shallow breaths and ignore it. Advertisement The task of identifying that strange smell falls to Joe Pickett, the conscientious game warden in these rugged novels who is mostly charged with monitoring the wildlife of the region, where so much land is managed by the federal government. That explains his interest in a dicey wind energy project and his involvement with a group of falconers clamoring to hunt with eagles. But when a British tourist disappears from the dude ranch where Joe’s daughter works, he shows the tough-and-tender qualities that make him such a great guy to have on your side. Advertisement ♦ History comes alive when a character you think of as a friend is in the thick of the action. That’s how Jacqueline Winspear keeps her Maisie Dobbs mysteries so fresh. TO DIE BUT ONCE (Harper, $27.99) opens in the spring of 1940, when the German Army is advancing on France and the British are preparing to evacuate. Maisie is already concerned about her office assistant, Billy Beale, who has a son at the front, when she receives an assignment from another worried father.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Phil Coombes, landlord of the Prince of Wales pub, hasn’t heard from 15-year-old Joe, an apprentice painter with Mike Yates and Sons, a firm that’s been contracted to apply a fire-retardant emulsion to buildings at government airfields. Joe had been complaining of bad headaches, a detail that becomes much more significant when his body is discovered and, after the autopsy, Maisie learns he had suffered two brain injuries, one from a fall (or a push?) off a railroad bridge and one from exposure to toxins. Maisie’s investigation takes on heft from its underlying theme of war profiteering, with greedy entrepreneurs like Mike Yates exposing their employees to life-threatening working conditions just to make a buck. ♦ Talking dirty can be great fun, especially when the trash talkers are Hap Collins and Leonard Pine, the cutup private eyes in Joe R. Lansdale’s Texas crime capers. In JACKRABBIT SMILE (Mulholland / Little, Brown, $26), the partners are tasked with finding Jackie (Jackrabbit) Mulhaney, the daughter of white supremacists who don’t care that Hap is irreverent and Leonard is black and gay. “We want her back,” her mother says, “be it flesh, or be it bones.” Jackie’s father, Sebastian, a fire-breathing preacher, lived hard and died a sad and lonely death. But her brother, Thomas, is carrying the burning torch. For such a freewheeling stylist, Lansdale can write a sensitive obituary for a “confused and tortured soul” like Sebastian, as well as boisterous action scenes for his irrepressible leads. And he has compassion for places like Hell’s Half Mile, “a line of honky-tonks full of drunken patrons trying to wash down poverty, bad marriages and gone-to-hell children.” Marilyn Stasio has covered crime fiction for the Book Review since 1988. Her column appears twice a month. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BR7 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Not in Front of the Children.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 12:36 A.M. E.D.T.
 ST. PAUL, Minn. —  Matt Dumba and the Minnesota Wild started a defining two-game stretch against the Dallas Stars with a determined performance. They're one step closer to a spot in the playoffs. "That was what fueled the fire, just wanting to bury these guys," Dumba said. "Not let them think that they could potentially get back into this thing by getting a couple victories against us." Dumba scored on a power play and finished with three assists for a career-high four points, leading the Wild past the fading Stars 5-2 on Thursday night. "It's something we talked about, making that gap even bigger and pushing more teams down," said Zach Parise, who scored 59 seconds after Dumba in the second period and tacked on an empty-netter in the waning seconds. Advertisement Mikael Granlund sparked the Wild with a short-handed goal in the first period , set up by the first of two assists by Ryan Suter, and Jason Zucker scored on a power play with 11 seconds left before the second intermission. Advertisement Even more important than Granlund's goal was the effort by the Wild that immediately followed it. Tyler Seguin had set up Benn in the slot for the lead for the Stars less than three minutes into the game, and a high-stick double-minor penalty on Wild defenseman Ryan Murphy produced a four-minute power play. Granlund scored just 12 seconds in, and the Wild penalty killers took over from there. "It was a big turning point, and it gave us a lot of life," coach Bruce Boudreau said. Jamie Benn and Devin Shore scored for the Stars, who have lost eight straight road games, including six in regulation. They're just 1-7-2 in their past 10 games overall, staggering into position for the knockout punch to their postseason hope. They host a rematch with the Wild on Saturday night. With only four games remaining, the Stars are five points behind current wild-card spot holders St. Louis and Anaheim in the Western Conference standings. The Blues have six games left, and the Ducks play five more times. The Stars also trail ninth-place Colorado by four points, with five games to go for the Avalanche. "Every mistake we made ended up in our net, and the chances we had we didn't finish on," Stars coach Ken Hitchcock said, adding: "We're going to compete at a very high level, and then the autopsy for us can take place."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Devan Dubnyk stopped 29 shots for the Wild, who improved to 26-6-8 at home for the second-most points in the NHL. With five games to go, they're up six points on the Avalanche in the race to clinch an appearance in the playoffs for the sixth straight year. Dumba, who set a career high with his 12th goal on a blistering one-timer , and Zucker gave the Wild's power play a badly needed boost. They had only one goal in their previous 26 opportunities until the sizzling second period. The Stars, meanwhile, were left shaking their heads about the opportunities they handed the Wild. "I had a bonehead shot there on the penalty kill," Seguin said, referring to the sequence before Zucker scored. "I can't shoot far-side short-handed, and they go down and score. That's a tough play." NOTES Dumba became the first Wild defenseman with four points in a game in franchise history. ... Wild defenseman Jared Spurgeon, who has missed the past seven games with a torn right hamstring, could start skating next week, Boudreau said before the game. Wild defenseman Gustav Olofsson left with an upper-body injury and was declared questionable to travel to Dallas. ... The Stars fell to 2-23-2 when trailing after two periods. ... Suter stretched his career high and franchise record to 45 assists. ... Stars defenseman Stephen Johns was being evaluated for a concussion after leaving in the first period with the injury. ... Zucker has three goals and two assists in three games against the Stars this season. ... Granlund's was the 10th short-handed goal allowed by the Stars to match the second-most in the league this season. ... Granlund scored for the first time in 15 games since Feb. 27. ... Seguin has 27 points in 23 games against the Wild. ... Announced attendance was 19,350, the largest of the season for the Wild. Advertisement UP NEXT Stars: After the rematch with Minnesota, Dallas must wrap up the schedule on the West Coast with games at San Jose, Anaheim and Los Angeles. Wild: Following the quick trip to Dallas, Minnesota plays its final regular-season home game on Monday against Edmonton. Then the Wild finish the schedule with the same three California road games the Stars have, against the Ducks, Kings and Sharks. ___ For more AP NHL coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 12:00 A.M. E.D.T.
 LOS ANGELES —  Turns out, pitching wasn't a problem for the Giants on opening day. With replacements in the starting and closing roles, San Francisco edged the Los Angeles Dodgers 1-0 Thursday behind Joe Panik's homer off Clayton Kershaw. Kershaw, a three-time NL Cy Young Award winner, took his first loss in his franchise-record eighth consecutive opening day start. Ty Blach opened in place of injured ace Madison Bumgarner, who is on the disabled list along with fellow starter Jeff Samardzija and closer Mark Melancon. Blach allowed three hits in five innings, struck out three and walked three in his first opening day start after 26 career starts in the majors, second-fewest of any Giants opening day starter since 1958. "I knew he wouldn't be scared or nervous or anything, he has a great makeup about him," Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. Advertisement Hunter Strickland gave up a leadoff single to Matt Kemp in the ninth before retiring three straight batters for the save. Advertisement "I just try to remind myself that I've been in this situation before," Strickland said. "It just calms me down a bit. Then you're comfortable in that situation." Panik pulled the ball down the right-field line with two outs. "When you hit those balls and you see it start to curve, you think it's going to keep curving. I guess I stayed inside the ball long enough," he said. "To get a lead in this ballpark is always a good thing, especially knowing the kind of bullpen we have." Panik's homer was the first run allowed this year by Kershaw, including spring training. The eight hits given up by the left-hander are the most off him on opening day, when he is 5-1 with a 1.05 ERA — second-lowest all-time in a season opener behind Rick Mahler's mark of 0.92. "There's a lot of things that I could have done better," Kershaw said. "It was pitch execution more than anything." Kershaw struck out seven and walked two in six innings of the Dodgers' first opening day loss since 2010. Andrew McCutchen, acquired from Pittsburgh during the offseason, was 1 for 4 with a double in his Giants debut. Evan Longoria, obtained by San Francisco from Tampa Bay, was 0 for 4 with three strikeouts. Blach has pitched well against the Dodgers in his career, going 3-2 with a 1.96 ERA. He's held them to a .212 average in eight games, including five starts.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Last year was a really big learning experience for a lot of us," Blach said. "We learned it takes 25 guys to win and you can't just rely on one guy. Even though it's nice to have Bum opening day, over the course of the year you're going to have injuries and you have to work through it." Advertisement Kershaw had his hands full from the start against the NL West's worst team last year, giving up hits in every inning but the third when he retired the side. The five-time NL West champion Dodgers had the potential tying run on third in the seventh. Yasmani Grandal singled and took third on pinch-hitter Chase Utley's two-out single. But leadoff hitter Chris Taylor was out on a called third strike from Cory Gearrin. After Kershaw departed, J.T. Chargois, Josh Fields and Tony Cingrani combined to toss three scoreless innings, but the Dodgers couldn't generate any offense beyond three singles. TRAINER'S ROOM Giants: Melancon has a right elbow flexor strain. Dodgers: They began the season with three players on the DL: 3B Justin Turner (broken wrist), RHP Tom Koehler (shoulder) and LHP Julio Urias (shoulder surgery). ON THE ROAD The Giants opened on the road for the ninth consecutive year and improved to 23-16 in openers away from home. KERSHAW AT THE PLATE Kershaw was 2 for 2 at the plate, singling in the third and fifth innings, leading manager Dave Roberts to joke that he should have hit cleanup. WARM WELCOME Kemp was warmly received by the sellout crowd of 53,595 during pre-game introductions in his first opening day at Dodger Stadium since 2014. "That was pretty awesome," he said. "I didn't really expect it. That was a lot of emotion for me." He started in left field and went 1 for 3 with a walk and a strikeout. UP NEXT The Giants start RHP Johnny Cueto against the Dodgers' LHP Alex Wood, a 16-game winner last year, on Friday in the second game of the four-game series. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ALAN FEUERMARCH 30, 2018
 After all of the evidence was presented — from police detectives, medical experts, grieving relatives and from one of the young victims — the jury seemed no closer to getting the answer to a crucial question in the trial of Daniel St. Hubert. While several witnesses had testified in detail as to how Mr. St. Hubert had killed one child and left a second fighting for her life in an elevator of a Brooklyn public housing project, none of them in nearly three weeks of proceedings had managed to say why. When P.J. Avitto, 6, was stabbed to death and Mikayla Capers, 7, was gravely wounded on a Sunday afternoon four years ago, the crimes sent shock waves through the city — not only because they were hideously violent, but also because they seemed so random and unthinkable. On June 1, 2014, the two best friends had been outside playing in the late-spring sun then took an elevator at the Boulevard Houses in East New York up toward P.J.’s apartment where they wanted to fetch Icees. A man stepped aboard behind them and stabbed them more than 30 times. P.J. died in a pool of blood. Mikayla was hospitalized for days with 16 gashes running from her neck to her knees. Four years later, the Brooklyn district attorney’s office and Mr. St. Hubert’s lawyer are locked in a struggle, disputing what occurred that day. As the trial came to a close on Thursday afternoon, the prosecutors said that Mr. St. Hubert — “a hulking monster” — followed the children from a playground and knifed them in the elevator, which was not much more than an arm-span wide. The lawyer, Howard Greenberg, ridiculed that theory, saying it was built on “junk science” and that several of the witnesses, including Mikayla, lied. Advertisement From the outset of the case, the brutal attacks on P.J. and Mikayla seemed all but inexplicable and baffled the police. There was no surveillance footage of the stabbings and an army of detectives canvassed the neighborhood for days, going door to door and ultimately interviewing dozens of potential suspects. Their big break came when a DNA sample on an eight-inch blade that was left behind matched Mr. St. Hubert’s DNA, which was on file in a state criminal database. Advertisement When the police arrested Mr. St. Hubert, he had recently been released from prison, where he had served a five-year term for trying to kill his mother. He had long a criminal record and a history of mental illness. He told the first investigators who questioned him, “Satan has powers and controls things.” In the days that followed his arrest, a public debate emerged about how the city treated prisoners with psychiatric problems. It seemed at first that Mr. St. Hubert might mount an insanity defense, but two psychiatric evaluations concluded that he was competent for trial. He is charged with second-degree murder and with attempted murder. At the trial, in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, Mr. St. Hubert, 31, sat beside his lawyer each day, mostly stone-faced and wearing a rosary. It was the victim’s loved ones who often showed emotion. When gory photographs of P.J.’s body and the elevator’s bloody floor were introduced as evidence, the children’s relatives gasped aloud and wept. Though the early investigation progressed in fits and starts, by the time the trial began, the prosecution had amassed a trove of evidence. That included four separate witnesses who claimed they had seen Mr. St. Hubert leaving the building where the stabbings occurred and cellphone records that placed him in the area at the time of the attacks. There was also the DNA connecting him to the knife and the testimony of Mikayla, now 11, who said that Mr. St. Hubert had suddenly assaulted her and P.J. after they were chatting in the elevator and refused his order to shut up.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In his closing argument on Thursday, Mr. Greenberg took the risky tack of going after Mikayla, telling the jury that she was “delusional” and “a pathological liar.” The girl had not been completely truthful on the stand, having testified that she had picked out Mr. St. Hubert in a photograph while she was in the hospital, when in fact the first time she identified him was in court. Addressing the jury with notes scrawled on napkins and loose scraps from a legal pad, Mr. Greenberg also sought to discredit the DNA evidence, which he described as “statistical lies.” He claimed his client was a “patsy” who was “convicted” by the media after being framed by the police. In his own summation, the lead prosecutor, Patrick O’Connor, led the jury through what each witness had seen and included Mr. St. Hubert’s movements on the day of the attacks. He reminded the panel not only that the defendant’s DNA had been discovered on the handle of the weapon, but also that a set of matching knives had been found at the homeless shelter where he had been living when the children were attacked. But it was only toward the end of his presentation that Mr. O’Connor addressed the issue of a motive. The jurors, who will be on a break next week, will not begin deliberations until April 9, but as Mr. O’Connor prepared to leave the case in their hands, he said that Mr. St. Hubert had “a generalized intent to harm society” and wanted “to put the fear of God in Brooklyn.” “He was out there to kill,” he said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Bits  By                     
 KEVIN ROOSE
 
MARCH 30, 2018
 Each week, Kevin Roose, technology columnist at The New York Times, discusses developments in the tech industry, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here. One perk — or hazard, I suppose — of being a technology writer for the past few years has been getting invited to ride in a bunch of autonomous vehicles. I’ve been shuttled around in nearly a dozen self-driving prototypes, including a Ford in Michigan, an Uber in Pennsylvania and a Chrysler minivan in the California desert. Whenever anyone asks what it’s like to ride in self-driving cars, my reply is: “Which self-driving cars?” Casual observers tend to talk about the progress of autonomous vehicles as if they’re a homogeneous category, but there is an entire spectrum of capability and safety. I’ve had calm and boring drives, and terrifying white-knuckle trips. The best results aren’t always from the companies with the most money or the most sophisticated marketing campaigns. This week, the self-driving car industry reached a turning point, one at which the mixed progress of self-driving car projects became very clear. Advertisement There was continued fallout from the fatal accident this month involving a self-driving Uber vehicle in Arizona, including a blockbuster story from my colleague Dai Wakabayashi about Uber’s struggles to get its self-driving cars ready for the market. Since the crash, Arizona officials have ordered Uber to suspend its autonomous vehicle testing program in the state, and Uber is not renewing its permit to test self-driving cars in California. In addition, Lior Ron, an executive who led Uber Freight and was involved in the company’s early self-driving efforts, is leaving the company. The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As Uber’s autonomous driving program stalls out, Waymo — the self-driving car division of Alphabet, Google’s parent company — is shifting into overdrive. (Sorry about the car puns — it’s an occupational hazard.) The company announced this week that over the next two years it would order up to 20,000 electric vehicles from Jaguar Land Rover for use in its consumer self-driving car service. Advertisement As my colleague Neal Boudette noted, Waymo’s announcement showed that the company has “an audacious vision that goes far beyond even the most optimistic plans of its rivals.” Waymo says that by 2020 — that is, two years from now — its fleet of self-driving Jaguars will be doing as many as a million trips per day. Self-driving car companies are notorious for overhyping their progress. But the Waymo announcement, complete with specific timetables, cost projections and firm indicators of fleet size, is a really, really big deal. As Alexis Madrigal wrote in a piece for The Atlantic, if Waymo is within even 50 percent of a million daily rides in two years, “the United States will have entered an entirely new phase in robotics and technology.” It’s unclear if Uber’s tragic accident in Arizona will have a broader effect on the autonomous vehicle industry. There could be a regulatory backlash that would hamper all self-driving projects, regardless of progress. Manufacturers could decide to be extra cautious when it comes to rolling out their projects on public roads, in order to avoid a worst-case scenario. But if Waymo’s announcement is an indication of where the rest of the self-driving car industry is heading, we shouldn’t expect too much of a slowdown. Autonomous vehicle manufacturers believe, with reason, that keeping their test vehicles on the road is a public health issue. The sooner they get safe self-driving cars to the masses, they say, the sooner we can avert some of the nearly 40,000 traffic deaths that happen in the United States every year. That means, unfortunately, that more accidents are inevitable — and underscores the importance of creating a reliable standard to measure the technological progress of self-driving car projects. But it also means that the self-driving future could arrive, from Waymo or someone else, sooner than most people think. Kevin Roose writes a column called The Shift and is a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter here: @kevinroose. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By NIRAJ CHOKSHIMARCH 30, 2018
 There was the class of Iowa teenagers seeking supplies for the homeless, and a Texas teacher who wanted $150 in headphones for her elementary school students. In Illinois, one educator wanted a set of laptops to better prepare her students for middle school, while a teacher in Massachusetts sought $41,000 to stock a library in an elementary school that serves low-income students, many of them refugees. This week, those requests, along with the more than 35,000 others listed on DonorsChoose.org, a crowdfunding website for school and classroom projects, were fully funded thanks to a single $29 million donation. “A million students, overwhelmingly in low-income communities, are going to feel the impact of this gift within the next few weeks,” said Charles Best, chief executive of the nonprofit group, which he founded in 2000 while teaching history and English in a Bronx classroom. The gift, by far the largest ever received by the charity, came after the site reached out to Ripple, a virtual currency company that has amassed wealth at an astonishing pace, and its executives. Advertisement “We’re surrounded by people who have benefited from having great educational experiences and we very much recognize that’s not the case across the U.S.,” said Monica Long, the senior vice president of marketing at Ripple, which is based in San Francisco. Advertisement “It’s just a subject that we all care very passionately about and we were in a position to make it happen,” she said of the decision to fully fund or top off all outstanding requests for supplies, books, technology, food, equipment, trips and more. The donation was announced this week by the late-night host Stephen Colbert, who himself helped to fund every project in his home state of South Carolina in 2015. It will reach at least some classrooms in more than 16,500 public schools, or about 1 in 6 public schools nationwide, according to the charity. Among them is Marina Del Rey Middle School in Los Angeles. Heather Vibbert, a special-education teacher there, had six requests fulfilled as a result of this week’s donation. As a result, her students, many of them from low-income households, will benefit from new science DVDs, a Blu-ray player, art supplies and individual white boards, among other things. The highlight, though, will be a Google Expeditions Kit, which will enable them to take virtual field trips. “I can guide them through the ocean bottom or Mars or any kind of crazy place we can dream of, which I’m very excited about,” Ms. Vibbert said. “That was kind of my big aspirational project that I never thought would get funded, but it never hurts to ask.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. No one understands that better than Mr. Best, who in January reached out to the Ripple chief executive, Brad Garlinghouse, a longtime supporter of the charity, with an audacious proposal: What if the business fulfilled every request on the website? Mr. Best hesitated to send the email at first, fearing that he might offend Mr. Garlinghouse, but pushed ahead, acknowledging upfront that he was making a “wildly ambitious pitch.” Advertisement “I just hope you don’t mind my swinging for the fences,” he wrote. It paid off. Soon, Ripple invited him to San Francisco to make the case in person and, within about a month of receiving the email, the company had agreed to make the donation. DonorsChoose.org vets each project posted on the site. Once a funding goal is reached, the charity works with teachers and schools to fulfill the request, rather than simply transferring the money directly to the person who made it. In the Charlotte-Mecklenburg School District in North Carolina, 212 projects worth about $130,000 were fulfilled by Ripple’s donation. In Atlanta, it funded about 260 projects, valued at more than $280,000. The requests can be wide-ranging. Many are for necessities like supplies, clothing or food, but others can help teachers pursue passion projects that schools may not have the resources to support, school administrators said. “It encourages teachers to be excited about their practice, to test things that we typically would not be able to fund,” said Meria Carstarphen, the superintendent of Atlanta Public Schools. 
            EVERY @DonorsChoose project for APS is FUNDED! This = 260 projects supporting 177 teachers totaling $282,056! �� pic.twitter.com/NTrdwYJavX  Most of the donations teachers receive come from outside of their community, allowing instructors in low-income areas to connect with those who have the means to help. This week’s gift from Ripple not only eclipsed the previous top donation of $9 million, but it also sparked a flurry of activity for DonorsChoose.org. On Wednesday, 16,000 projects were created on the website, beating its previous weekly record of 15,000 new requests in a single day. Among them is one from Ms. Vibbert, who hopes to purchase a set of books for her students about the friendship between Alexander Hamilton and his sister-in-law Peggy Schuyler. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Sunday Routine  By                     
NANCY A. RUHLING

MARCH 30, 2018
 Majora Carter, an emerging-market real estate developer, is committed to further developing the neighborhood where she lives: Hunts Point, in the South Bronx. There, she is the co-owner of the Boogie Down Grind Café and also helped an entrepreneur start EyeCycleNYC, the first boutique indoor cycling and yoga studio in the South Bronx. She and her partners are also hoping to convert a former railway station on Hunts Point Avenue, designed by Cass Gilbert, into a food hall. “I have launched and exited so many organizations and companies that I’m probably unemployable,” said Ms. Carter, 51. She lives in a brownstone, two blocks from the one she grew up in, with her husband and business partner, James Chase, and their two dogs, Monkey, a German shepherd, and Khalessi, a shepherd/collie mix. SLEEPING IN (SORT OF) I do allow myself to stay in bed a little longer on Sundays, but it’s still early, about 7ish, when I get up. It feels like a luxury, though, because during the week, I’m up by 5:30. This is my quiet time. I meditate, pray and read the Bible, then play with my two dogs. Together they weigh about 140 pounds. They still act like puppies, and one of their favorite things is to play tug-of-war while I hold a knotted rope. They make such hysterical noises that they crack me up. GO FOR A SPIN By 8, I’m at EyeCycleNYC for a 90-minute spin class. Afterward, some of my classmates and I head to the Boogie Down Grind Café, where I have my usual two-shot cortado with skim milk, turmeric and mocha. If it’s busy, I’ll step behind the counter to help the barista and just generally hang out. BRING ON THE PANCAKES By the time I get back home, James has run with Monkey and Khalessi and is making his famous steel-cut-oatmeal pancakes with blueberries or chocolate chips. I’m a lifetime Weight Watchers member, so we do make healthy choices — the rest of the week he makes egg whites and vegetables. We generally have friends or family join us. We call it breakfast, but it’s really more like brunch because it doesn’t start until 11 or so. Afterward, we always take some time to talk about work and plan what’s coming up during the week. Often, we loop in our business adviser on the phone, or he’ll come to see us. CHURCH I became a Christian a year ago, so church is a big part of my Sundays. I walk 10 minutes to Restoration Community Church, which has a multiracial, multiethnic congregation, to attend the 2:30 service. Afterward, I hang out with the other members for coffee hour. . Advertisement THE GRIND On the walk home, I stop in at the Boogie cafe again, where I meet James. There’s always something going on there — we have art shows, book signings and poetry readings. We do another round of planning for the week’s work and catch up with each other. Depending on how much exercise we’ve had that day, after we get home, we sometimes do a round of high-intensity interval training together or an ab workout. Advertisement TABLE TALK Dinner is kind of late, 9ish. There’s no particular reason it’s that hour, it just takes us a while to wind down. We keep it simple — usually we have grilled vegetables and salads; meat is only a side dish. When we were dating, I thought meals were going to be a problem because I have very limited kitchen skills, and I assumed James, who was a vegetarian, would want me to do the cooking occasionally. As it turns out, he loves to cook. When he designed our new kitchen, he made the stove face out toward the island so we can talk during the preparations. We love to entertain and often invite people over. SCREEN TIME We reserve the evening for catching up on the news, which for us means online streaming “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah” because we don’t have a TV. We also watch movies, but to be honest, I usually fall asleep on the couch while they’re on. DOGS AND APPS By 11 or so, we pull out the dog mats — the room is small so dogs take up most of the floor space — and climb into bed. I don’t go to sleep right away. I’m trying to learn Spanish, so I sometimes practice for a while with a phone app. If I’m having trouble falling asleep, I listen to the A.S.M.R. series on YouTube. The one called “Gentle Whispering” features a lady with a soft voice and brushing sounds. It really works for me. Sunday Routine readers can follow Majora Carter on Twitter or Instagram @majoracarter. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page MB2 of the New York edition with the headline: Taking Care of Mind, Body and Soul.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:30 A.M. E.D.T.
 CALGARY, Alberta —  The Columbus Blue Jackets stayed hot thanks to a big night from rookie centre Pierre-Luc Dubois. Dubois had his first career hat trick and the Blue Jackets beat the Calgary Flames 5-1 on Thursday night. "We have a lot of experience in this room and I'm lucky enough to play with guys like (Artemi Panarin) and Cam (Atkinson), who are two amazing players," Dubois said. "I want to keep winning and keep improving. It's a great environment to learn in." Columbus earned its sixth straight road victory and 12th win in its past 13 games, and moved past the Philadelphia Flyers and into third place in the Metropolitan Division. The Blue Jackets are one point back of the second place Pittsburgh Penguins. Advertisement "We can't control what the other teams do but if we keep winning, I think we'll put ourselves in a pretty good spot," Dubois added. Advertisement Markus Hannikainen and Markus Nutivaara also scored for Columbus. Dubois' linemates Artemi Panerin and Cam Atkinson each had two assists. Chris Stewart scored for Calgary, ruining Sergei Bobrovky's shutout bid with 22 seconds left in the game. The Flames have lost seven straight games, being outscored 33-8 over that span. "We're feeling sorry for ourselves a little bit too much," Flames veteran Matt Stajan said. "These games are hard to play, but we're in the NHL, we have to go after it a little bit better. We're making way too many mistakes — turning pucks over, odd-man rushes — things that you lose hockey games because of." Columbus coach John Tortorella won his 128th game, moving him past Todd Richards into first on the club's all-time list. Because of an injury to Marcus Foligno (lower body), Dubois was re-united with Panarin and Atkinson on the top line in Edmonton on Tuesday and so far, so good. Dubois' first multi-goal game came after the trio combined for two goals against the Oilers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Making it 2-0 at 12:23 of the first period, Dubois' first of the game came on a one-timer past rookie Jon Gillies after being set up neatly by Panarin. Dubois' second, making it 3-0 at 3:55 of the second, came after a sensational end-to-end rush by Atkinson, who wove his way down the ice, eventually sliding a backhand pass into the slot that Dubois snapped just inside the post. He capped off his memorable night with a power-play goal at 15:23 of the third. Eighteen goals on the season is a team record for goals by a rookie, surpassing Rick Nash's 17 in 2002-03. The 2016 fourth overall pick has 44 points on the season, three back of Zach Werenski's record for points by a rookie, set last season. Advertisement Calgary outshot the Blue Jackets 38-28, but as has been the theme lately for the injury-riddled club missing its three top goal scorers, the Flames struggled to get one past Bobrovsky. Among the stops for the NHL's reigning Vezina Trophy winner was a sprawling stop of Micheal Ferland in the first period. Early in the second, Bobrovsky stabbed his glove to snare a dangerous shot from 15 feet from Nick Shore. With Sean Monahan (wrist), Matthew Tkachuk (upper) and TJ Brodie (upper body) among the injured Flames, Calgary lost defenseman Travis Hamonic (upper body) after he was shaken up in a collision late in the first period. NOTES: The Flames have called up Spencer Foo from Stockton (AHL). He will make his NHL debut on Saturday against Edmonton. ... Johnny Gaudreau (family matter) missed his second game, but he will rejoin the team on Friday. ... Blue Jackets' Brandon Dubinsky (illness) left the game in the second period. UP NEXT: Blue Jackets: Travel to Vancouver on Saturday. Flames: Host Edmonton on Saturday night. ___ More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:30 P.M. E.D.T.
 BUFFALO, N.Y. —  Red Wings captain Henrik Zetterberg isn't sure how many more milestones he has left as he prepares to complete his 15th season in Detroit. The 37-year-old is eager to find out. "I hope so," Zetterberg said after picking up his 954th career point to match Sergei Fedorov for fifth on the franchise list following 6-3 win over the Buffalo Sabres on Wednesday. "I think this is the one that was kind of in reach. The next big one in my point production, it'll take a while. So we'll see." Next on the list: Nicklas Lidstrom at 1,142. Zetterberg earned the secondary assist on Danny DeKeyser's goal that put Detroit up 5-3 with 9:50 remaining. In closing a season in which Detroit will miss the playoffs for a second consecutive year, Zetterberg and his teammates finally had something to feel good about. Advertisement The Red Wings won on the road for the first time in more than a month by snapping an 0-10-1 skid — their worst since the 1981-82 season. Advertisement And they did it with a balanced attack, while overcoming a 2-0 first-period deficit. Though the Red Wings' offensive production came mostly from their youngster, goalie Jimmy Howard said Zetterberg deserves the credit for being a role model. "He's awesome. He's one of those leaders you can't say enough about," said Howard, who stopped 29 shots. "It doesn't matter what the situation is, whether we're in the playoffs or not, he leads by example. And I think that's what our young guys need right now." Anthony Mantha, with his team-leading 24th, scored the go-ahead goal by converting a rebound off a shot he deflected with 3:34 left in the second period. Dylan Larkin and rookie first-round pick Evgeny Svechnikov had a goal and assist each. Darren Helm, with a short-handed goal, and Andreas Athanasiou also scored for Detroit, which hadn't won on the road since a 3-2 overtime victory against the New York Rangers 3-2 on Feb. 25. The NHL's last-place Sabres endured yet another familiar collapse at home, where they are now assured of finishing with the fewest wins in an 82-game season in franchise history. With an 11-24-5 home record, and one game at Buffalo left, the Sabres can't match their previous low win total of 13 set in 2012-13.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Rookie Sabres coach Phil Housley blamed the loss on too many lapses. Jack Eichel simply called it, "frustrating." Added Eichel: "You're not going to win hockey games playing like we did." Eichel set a single-season career high by scoring his team-leading 25th goal. Ryan O'Reilly also scored, and center Casey Mittelstadt set up Evan Rodrigues' goal by winning a faceoff in the third period for his first career assist in his NHL debut. Selected with the eighth pick in last year's draft, Mittelstadt signed with Buffalo this week after electing to skip his final three college season at Minnesota. Advertisement Sabres goalie Robin Lehner did not return for the start of the third period after sustaining an undisclosed injury. He allowed three goals on 20 shots through two periods. Chad Johnson gave up three goals on 12 shots. Mantha scored just after a faceoff violation penalty called against Mittelstadt expired. Mantha was allowed to stand alone in front, where he deflected Joe Hicketts' shot from the blue line. Lehner got a piece of the shot, though Mantha was still untouched while easily converting the rebound. Athanasiou's scored a 1:50 into the third period to put the Red Wings up 4-2 by capping an exceptional series of passes. Niklas Kronwall broke up the left wing and flipped a pass through the middle to Justin Abdelkader, who tapped the puck through his legs in setting up Athanasiou in the slot. NOTES: Detroit won for the third time in 16 games (3-12-1). ... Coming of a 5-2 win over Pittsburgh on Tuesday, the Red Wings 11 combined goals matched the total of their previous five games. ... Rather than having the starting goalie lead the Sabres out for pre-game warm-ups, Mittelstadt got the honor in skating out on his own for 20 seconds before being joined by his teammates. The 19-year-old drew applause upon jumping the boards and hitting the ice for his first shift 1:27 into the game. UP NEXT Red Wings: Host Ottawa Senators on Saturday. Sabres: At Nashville on Saturday. ___ More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 2:39 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Virginia coach Tony Bennett had hoped to be here this weekend with a No. 1 seed preparing to play his team's first Final Four in 34 years. Instead, he found himself trying to reconcile a terrific four-plus months — good enough to bring him here to collect the trophy as The Associated Press men's college basketball coach of the year — with the fact the Cavaliers fell to UMBC to become the first No. 1 seed to lose to a 16-seed in NCAA Tournament history. Dealing with the weight of that history, he figures, is part of coaching a team with no games left to play. "They experienced things a lot of guys don't," Bennett said in an interview with the AP. "That kind of success? Oh my gosh. And then that kind of loss? ... But again, their body of work deserves to be celebrated. Advertisement "And then so much of what society looks at — it begs the question — is it just about how you do in March? Or is it about the whole thing? It's a fair debate (on) what matters. But I told them: I wouldn't trade this team for anything. Even the experiences, as hard as they are, this is part of the process." Advertisement Bennett had largely kept a low profile in the roughly two weeks since being praised by many for his class and composure following the season-ending loss. He spoke with the AP ahead of receiving the coaching honor for a season in which his Cavaliers set a program record for wins, dominated the Atlantic Coast Conference and reached No. 1 in the AP Top 25 for the first time since the Ralph Sampson era. And yet, the 48-year-old coach knows the focus will remain on a loss sure to live on in March Madness lore. While Bennett is reviewing what adjustments to make, it's clear he won't waver from his foundation. That includes the "five pillars" philosophy (humility, thankfulness, passion, unity and servanthood) that built the Cavaliers into a contender and the big-picture perspective he leans on to move forward. "We all know, you live long enough, there will be worse things that happen to all of us, and there will be greater things than championships," Bennett said. "And that's, I think, the greatest truth they can know. As a teacher and as a coach, I believe those things and I share those things with them." In Bennett's ninth season, the Cavaliers (31-3) went from being picked to finish sixth in the ACC to winning the regular-season race by four games — the first to win the ACC by that wide a margin since 2000. It then won the ACC Tournament to complete a 20-1 run against league opponents and earned the No. 1 overall NCAA seed.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Yet it ended with a 74-54 loss to UMBC without injured ACC sixth man of the year De'Andre Hunter. Bennett said he has told his players they have "an unbelievable captive audience" waiting to see how they handle it. "I said how you respond to this will matter to your mom and dads, to your brothers, your sisters, your friends," Bennett said. "If they see that you're not fake about it, that yeah, of course you're going to be discouraged and down after a loss like that, but that you're OK. You can live with it. "I said: you don't know the power that that's going to have in their life and in your life." Bennett said he appreciated other coaches offering support, which included Syracuse Hall of Famer Jim Boeheim noting: "If I could hire a coach in this country and I could get Tony Bennett, there would be nobody in second place." Advertisement Predictably, the UMBC loss hovered over Thursday's AP trophy presentation. And with the roughly 3-foot trophy sitting on the table next to him, Bennett — who earned 50 of 65 votes from AP Top 25 writers with ballots submitted before the start of the NCAA Tournament — answered everything in the same matter-of-fact fashion. "The sun did come up the next day," Bennett said at one point. And he's prepared to stumble a few more times on the way to reaching his goals. "You better have something beyond the opinion of man or just how you feel, because this stuff is fleeting," Bennett told the AP. "So that's where obviously my faith is everything to me. You hear people talk about their faith in the lord and the relationship with the people that they care about, their family and their trusted friends. Those things stand the test of time. And that's what you have to draw from. And then you move on." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By CINDY SHMERLERMARCH 30, 2018
 MIAMI — Sloane Stephens was trying to get ready. Busy choosing an outfit to wear for her day-after-U.S-Open-championship photo shoot in New York last September, Stephens barely heard the knock at her hotel room door. Assuming the intruder was room service, Stephens cheerily called out, “Come iiiin.” When she realized, instead, that her visitor was the star point guard for the Houston Rockets, Stephens, a newly-minted Grand Slam champion, simply blurted out, “You’re Chris Paul.” It turned out that Paul’s mother, Robin Jones, had followed Stephens’s unlikely run to the title and become a Stephens fan. Paul, a nine-time N.B.A. All-Star, happened to be staying in the same hotel as Stephens and wanted to meet her. During their visit, he even got his mother on his phone so she could FaceTime with Stephens. “That was super awesome,” Stephens recalled Thursday afternoon, just after she reached the Miami Open final. “I mean, I love him, and I got to meet his mom. It was so cute.” Advertisement Celebrity encounters like that are the kind of perk that Stephens still marvels over when she thinks back to her Open win. But they also helped her get through a rough post-Open patch — from last fall through the Australian Open in January — when she lost eight straight matches. Advertisement It is easy to smile about the good times again, now that Stephens, who defeated the former No. 1 Victoria Azarenka on Thursday to reach the Miami final, is having her best tournament in months. But it hasn’t always been this much fun. During her victory drought, Stephens lost four matches on a WTA tour-mandated Asian swing and then dropped both of her singles matches while representing the United States in the Fed Cup final in Belarus. One of those matches, an 8-6 third-set defeat to Aliaksandra Sasnovich, left her in tears. “My heart was there and I really wanted to play because I was super excited about playing again,” said Stephens, who had missed the first half of 2017 after surgery on her left foot. “But physically I was not anywhere near where I wanted to be, and that’s just what you get when you’re not 100 percent healthy. I wanted to be there mentally but my body was like, ‘No, girl, have a seat.’ “That just turned into people saying how I’m such a flop and I’m never going to be the same,” added Stephens, who was ranked No. 83 when she won the Open, becoming only the fifth unseeded champion in tournament history. “It was crazy, but people just don’t know what’s going on. I mean, they have no idea.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Stephens, who turned 25 last week, is back in a final for the first time since Flushing Meadows and, win or lose, she will reach the top 10 in the WTA rankings for the first time on Monday. Not only did she beat Azarenka for the second time in a month — she also scored a second round-victory in Indian Wells, Calif. — but Stephens also upset the reigning Wimbledon champion, Garbine Muguruza, in the round of 16 and another former world No. 1, Angelique Kerber, in the quarterfinals. Stephens will face last year’s French Open champion, sixth-seeded Jelena Ostapenko of Latvia, in the final on Saturday, the last time the tournament will be contested on Key Biscayne, near Stephens’s Fort Lauderdale home, before it moves north next year to Hard Rock Stadium in Miami Gardens. The 20-year-old Ostapenko, now at career-high No. 5 ranking, was No. 64 entering last year’s Miami Open. That was before she upset Romania’s Simona Halep in Paris to become the lowest-ranked player (at No. 47) and first unseeded woman to win at Roland Garros. Ostapenko and Stephens have never played a tour match against each other, and both are seeking their first title this season. Ostapenko won a tournament, in Seoul, South Korea, last fall. That, and the French Open, are her only two career titles. Stephens has won five, including in Auckland, Charleston and Acapulco in 2016. But both are defending majors, and major ranking points, this summer, so they realize the importance of adding the Miami Open to their résumés. And both are keenly aware that winning one major does not make a career, even if it still feels special. The U.S. Open trophy that Stephens was awarded last September, for example, now holds a coveted place in the middle of the dining table in her grandparents’ home in Fresno, Calif. Why, Stephens was asked, is her most treasured prize not in her own home? Advertisement “Everything that is special or important to me I keep at my grandparents’ house,” she said, a big, toothy smile emerging from beneath her baseball cap. “That’s because they appreciate it as much as I do.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By NEIL GENZLINGERMARCH 30, 2018
 Anita Shreve, a best-selling author whose novels explored change, loss and troubled marriages, often against the backdrop of a real historical event, died on Thursday at her home in Newfields, N.H. She was 71. Her publisher, Alfred A. Knopf, said the cause was cancer. Ms. Shreve drew critical acclaim and a large following with books like “The Weight of Water” (1997), an intricate story involving a long-ago crime and present-day dramas. Susan Kenney, reviewing that book in The New York Times, described it as “a cryptic long-lost narrative inside an impending family tragedy wrapped in a true-crime murder mystery framed by the aftermath of all of the above.” The review continued, “Ms. Shreve unravels themes of adultery, jealousy, crimes of passion, incest, negligence, loss and guilt, and then manages somehow to knit them all together into an engrossing tale. The book became a 2000 film directed by Kathryn Bigelow. Many of her books featured women in stressful situations, a setup she found rich in possibilities. “In ‘The Weight of Water’ there’s a line,” she said in an interview last year with WBUR radio, “and it says, ‘If you push a woman to the edge, how will she behave?’ And that, to me, is a fascinating question.” Advertisement Ms. Shreve was born on Oct. 7, 1946, in Boston. Her father, Richard, was an airline pilot, and her mother, the former Bibiana Kennedy, was a homemaker. She grew up in Dedham, Mass. Advertisement “I wrote poems in my closet,” she said in a 2011 interview with Tufts Now, a publication of Tufts University, where she received an English degree in 1968. “Writing for a living wasn’t on the radar screen, wasn’t discussed at the dinner table. It wasn’t a practical thing to even consider doing. But when I look back now, I can see it was there all along.” First came a career as a high school teacher in the Boston area. In the early 1970s, though, the urge to write could no longer be denied. “I quit teaching in the middle of the year,” she said. “Not at Christmas, when it would’ve been at least a little bit logical, but in April. I couldn’t even wait two months. I felt like it was now or never. It was a statement. To myself, really.” She spent years as a freelance journalist, writing the occasional short story as well, but didn’t try longer fiction until the late 1980s. Her first novel, “Eden Close,” about a long-ago crime and its aftermath, was published in 1989. “ ‘Eden Close’ is not a novel of suspense but one of sensibility,” Carolyn Banks wrote in reviewing it for The Times. “Its insights are keen, its language measured and haunting.” Ms. Shreve’s career, and her book sales, got a big boost in 1999 when Oprah Winfrey chose “The Pilot’s Wife” (1998), a book about a woman whose husband dies in a plane crash, for Oprah’s Book Club. “I’m still a bit stunned,” Ms. Shreve told The Boston Globe after Ms. Winfrey called her personally to give her the news. The book was made into a 2002 television movie starring Christine Lahti. Advertisement Years later, in an interview with The Irish Independent, Ms. Shreve voiced a hint of regret that the exposure had changed the view of her books from literary to commercial. “I don’t think I could ever say aloud that I’m sorry that the Oprah call happened, because I’m not,” she said, “but I paid for it.” In a 2002 interview with The Times, Ms. Shreve said that several of her books, including “The Pilot’s Wife,” had been inspired, in a sense, by one particular white-clapboard house on the coast of Maine, near where she spent her summer vacations. She did not own the house, and in fact had never been in it, she said, but she took a picture of it, hung it over her desk and imagined people living there and the events that transformed their lives. Often those events drew on actual ones. “The Pilot’s Wife,” she said, was not based on her father’s career, but germinated when she overheard a snippet of conversation about a plane crash at a party. “Sea Glass” (2002), another book that used the house as a setting, involved the Great Depression. “Testimony” (2008) was inspired by real-life scandals at boarding schools. “Stella Bain” (2014) was a World War I story. And her most recent book, “The Stars Are Fire,” published last year, draws on devastating wildfires that struck Maine in 1947. Ms. Shreve’s marriage to John Clemans ended in divorce. She is survived by her husband, John Osborn; a son, Chris Clemans; a daughter, Katherine Clemans; three stepchildren, Whitney Osborn, Allison Leary and Molly Jacobson; two sisters, Janet Martland and Betsy Shreve-Gibb; and three grandchildren. Ms. Shreve often said she preferred writing in longhand to working on a computer. “Something happens, I can’t explain it,” she said, “but the process goes from the head to the arm to the hand to the pen to the paper.” Since her first novel was published, Ms. Shreve averaged about a book every year and a half. But she was not the type of writer who found that experience makes the words flow more quickly. Advertisement “If an architect had built 17 buildings,” she said in 2011, invoking her 17th novel, “you can be sure that he would know certain shortcuts, exactly what weight the walls could bear, what goes where. When you start writing a novel, nothing that you’ve done before helps in any way.” A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Anita Shreve, 71, Best-Selling Novelist Who Wrote ‘Weight of Water,’ Is Dead.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:57 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEWARK, N.J. —  On the opening day of the baseball season, Sidney Crosby swung and connected for the Pittsburgh Penguins, preventing the New Jersey Devils from sweeping their four-game season series with the two-time defending Stanley Cup champion. Crosby batted his own rebound out of the air and into the net 19 seconds into overtime, and the Penguins beat the Devils 4-3 on Thursday night, marking the second time in just over a week the back-to-back Conn Smythe Trophy winner has scored on a baseball swing. "I've seen him do it so many times, it doesn't surprise us anymore," Penguins coach Mike Sullivan said. "He's an elite player. There aren't too many (making) guys those types of plays. He does it time and time again. He thinks the game on such a high level and he's such a competitor." Kris Letang stole Taylor Hall's pass in the opening seconds in the Pittsburgh zone and sent Crosby on a semi-break the other way. His initial shot hit the goalpost, but then the star center pulled his hands in and swatted the puck, extending his goal-scoring streak to five games. Advertisement The tally was similar to one against Montreal last Wednesday in which Crosby juggled the puck once on his stick before smacking it from just below shoulder height. Advertisement Crosby, who has won almost every major award in the NHL, modestly downplayed his latest trick. "I just tried to stay with it," he said. "It's fortunate it came back to me. I saw it go off post." Pittsburgh defenseman Brian Dumoulin called the goal incredible. "It kind of leaves you in awe," he said. "I mean we see it a lot, but every time he does it and does something special it's crazy to see and enjoyable. It just speaks to what an incredible player he is." Conor Sheary, Letang and Patric Hornqvist also scored for the Penguins. Matt Murray made 28 saves. Kyle Palmieri, Hall and Blake Coleman scored for the Devils, who had a three-game winning streak snapped. Keith Kinkaid had 31 saves in losing for only the fourth time in his last 16 decisions (12-3-1). "That's a good team over there," Palmieri said after the Devils remained three points in front of Florida in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. "They know how to win at this time of year. We'll take the point and reset and shore some things up for us. It's a big weekend for us." New Jersey has five games left in the regular season, one less than the Panthers, who lost 3-2 in overtime to Ottawa.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The losses by Ottawa and New Jersey clinched playoff berths for Washington and Toronto, which were both idle. The game was tied three times, with the Penguins getting a lucky bounce on Hornqvist's 25th goal that tied it with 8:34 left in regulation. His shot from just inside the blue line went through a maze of players, hit the goalpost and then bounced off Kinkaid's leg into the net. Coleman had given the Devils the lead 5:11 into the third period. He stole a puck at the Penguins' blue line, worked a give-and-go with Travis Zajac and then put the rebound of his own shot past Murray. It was his 12th goal of the season and third against Pittsburgh. Advertisement The game was tied 1-all after the first period and 2-all after the second. Palmieri, who has four goals in his last three games, was sent on a breakaway by Nico Hischier and beat Murray between the pads at 12:19. Sheary tied it 25 seconds later after taking a cross-ice pass by Hornqvist and beating Kinkaid in close. Letang, who has goals in two straight, put Pittsburgh ahead 6:59 into the second period, beating Kinkaid from low in the right circle. Hall tied the game with a power-play goal from the right circle. It was his 34th goal. NOTES: Hischier is the first Devils' rookie to have 50 points in a season since Adam Henrique in 2011-12. ... The Penguins now have four 25-goal scorers with Hornqvist joining Evgeni Malkin (42), Phil Kessel (30) and Crosby (28). It's the first time since 2011-12. ... RW Patrick Maroon returned to the Devils' lineup after missing two games with a lower-body injury. ... Rookie RW Jesper Bratt was a healthy scratch. UP NEXT Penguins: Host Montreal on Saturday. Devils: Finish four-game home stand on Saturday against Islanders. __ More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 9:21 P.M. E.D.T.
 CINCINNATI —  Max Scherzer put on quite a performance for his new manager. Scherzer struck out 10 in six innings and the Washington Nationals made Dave Martinez's dugout debut a success, opening with a 2-0 win over the Cincinnati Reds on Friday. "The biggest thing for me is not becoming a fan," Martinez said after cleaning up following a surprise clubhouse celebration. "I have to manage the game. It was hard not to be a fan of Scherzer." Martinez had never managed in the majors. He was the Cubs' bench coach before he was hired in the offseason to replace Dusty Baker. Bryce Harper got two hits for the NL East champions, but his string of five straight opening days with a home run came to an end. Advertisement A day after this opener at Great American Ball Park was postponed because of rain, Scherzer (1-0) picked up where he left off. The winner of the last two NL Cy Young Awards gave up five hits, walked one and permitted just one runner past first base. Advertisement The Reds put runners on second and third in the fourth, but Scherzer fanned Tucker Barnhart to escape. At one point, Scherzer struck out seven in a row. "In spring training, you're pretty much just throwing pitches," Scherzer said. "Now, you've got scouting reports. We had a good game plan. (Catcher Matt) Wieters did a good job. In this ballpark you can't make mistakes. We were able to avoid the big inning. It came down to executing and using all my pitches." Scherzer pitched without long sleeves in a game where the first-pitch temperature was 47 degrees. He felt the chill was beneficial. "It made the ball a little slick, and I think that helped my changeup," Scherzer said. Scherzer posted his 65th career game with double-digit strikeouts. The only hitter who did real damage against him was Scooter Gennett, who finished 4 for 4 with a double. After Gennett led off the second with a double, Scherzer struck out the next seven Cincinnati batters before Joey Votto flied out. Brandon Kintzler and Ryan Madson each turned in a scoreless inning before Sean Doolittle pitched the ninth for the save. Adam Eaton, who missed most of his first season with Washington last year with a knee injury, led off the game with a bloop single. He went to third on Harper's single and scored on Ryan Zimmerman's forceout. Harper's hard slide into second base helped force an errant throw, avoiding an inning-ending double play. Advertisement "I'm proud of Harper for getting down to second," Martinez said. Trea Turner scored on Brian Goodwin's sacrifice fly in the ninth.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Homer Bailey, making his first opening day start in his 10th season with the Reds, allowed four hits and one run with three walks and three strikeouts in six innings. Bailey (0-1), on Cincinnati's opening day roster for the first time in four seasons due to injuries, also singled. "I'm not happy with the results because it came in a loss," Bailey said. "We were able to battle a really good lineup. A couple of little things here and there and we're still playing." Said manager Bryan Price: "I'm not going to ask for anything more than what Homer did." "He got soft contact with Eaton and Harper. We couldn't turn the double play. It is the little things that can cost you a game," he said. The Nationals loaded the bases with two outs in the sixth, but Jesse Winker tracked down Michael A. Taylor's drive to the left-center field warning track and held on despite colliding with center fielder Billy Hamilton. Winker lifted his glove to prove his catch while both players were down on the track. They each stayed in the game. TRAINER'S ROOM Reds: Bailey was hit in the back of his batting helmet by first baseman Zimmerman's throw while running to second on Hamilton's groundball in the fifth. The ball caromed into short left field. Bailey stayed in the game. UP NEXT Nationals: RHP Stephen Strasburg is a combined 3-1 with a 2.58 ERA in the first starts of his last six seasons. Reds: RHP Luis Castillo allowed three hits and three runs in six innings of his major league debut against Washington last June. Advertisement LITTLE HELP Reds Hall of Fame outfielder Eric Davis went into the stands and picked a young fan to help him deliver the game ball and resin bag to the mound. RECORD CROWD Despite opening a day later than scheduled due to rain, the crowd of 43,878 was a Great American Ball Park regular-season single-game attendance record, beating by 74 the previous record, set last season. BULLPEN CHANGEUP The Reds changed the ballpark's bullpen configuration, moving the visitors' side from right field to left-center and the Reds' from left-center to right. Price accidentally pointed to the wrong bullpen while making an eighth-inning pitching change. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:03 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Chrissy Teigen says she's nervous about John Legend's performance in "Jesus Christ Superstar Live" on Sunday, but it's not about what you might think. Legend leads a cast that includes Sara Bareilles and Alice Cooper in the NBC version of the rock opera by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice. ("Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert" airs at 8 p.m. ET/7 p.m. CT.) Teigen says her husband needs frequent bathroom breaks during concerts and may not be prepared for a three-hour live show. Teigen is known for honest, no-filter comments like this, especially on social media. It's earned her 10 million Twitter followers and more than 16 million Instagram followers, and a lot of what she posts online ends up as a headline. Advertisement Recent examples of her clickbait include how she knows the identity of a mysterious person who allegedly bit Beyonce at a party in December; that she's stopped using Snapchat; and enjoys eating bacon. Advertisement "If I had to read this many dumb things about me all day, every day, I would hate myself so I understand the oversaturation," she said Friday in an interview with The Associated Press to promote her role as creative consultant for Pampers, which has launched a line of natural diapers and wipes. "I would've done it for free but don't tell them," laughed Teigen, who has a 2-year-old daughter and is pregnant with her second child.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. AP: When did you realize that what you say on social media gets scrutinized? Teigen: Honestly when I first got my first major brand endorsement that was the first time where I couldn't say something that I thought was funny because there could be brand backlash. Or when I couldn't go to award shows anymore because I always prided myself on being an outsider so I got to comment on performances just like a regular fan. When I couldn't do that (anymore) I knew that it was over for me. I can't remember who was performing but someone clearly wasn't singing live and I said it and, wow. AP: There are people who really appreciate your honesty because they can relate to it. Teigen: I hope so. I really don't have the intention of things becoming a moment or a quote or a thing. Sometimes the things we do are not some grand statement about something bigger. AP: You recently tweeted that you wouldn't be watching the "Roseanne" reboot. Why? Teigen: It's a show that I grew up on. My dad still reminds me so much of John Goodman. I related to that family so much more than any family on television. I remember the way Roseanne would speak to D.J. about having a friend of a different race. ... I really think there's room for shows with different viewpoints than me. It is hard for me to support somebody personally that has such wildly different — they're not even different views. It just comes down to a humanity standpoint. ... But it's hard. I love reality TV but if you want to dig into it, these shows probably aren't the greatest to watch. AP: You say you know the identity of the person who bit Beyonce at a party in December. Have you spoken to her or the biter since this story blew up? Teigen: (Laughter.) No. Definitely not. It is funny though because I really believe that, we got hit so hard as a nation by so many really difficult subjects, really, really tough things. And for something like this to happen where we can all just bond. I haven't spoken to anybody (about it). The funniest part about it is it's not that big of a deal and so not what people think. ___ Online: https://www.nbc.com/jesus-christ-superstar?nbc=1 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By SALIM VALJIMARCH 30, 2018
 EDMONTON, Alberta — Less than 100 games into his N.H.L. career, Edmonton Oilers forward Jujhar Khaira has already received an honor that has eluded many of the sport’s biggest stars: being mentioned in an official sitting of the Canadian Parliament, in front of the prime minister. On March 7, 2017, Randeep Sarai, a member of Parliament representing Surrey Centre, said in a speech in Ottawa: “As a hockey dad, I know it’s every Canadian kid’s dream to be in the N.H.L. One such dream is Surrey’s own, 6-foot-4, Edmonton Oiler No. 54, Jujhar Khaira. On Jan. 16, he scored his first N.H.L. goal on the Arizona Coyotes.” Khaira, 23, is nearing the end of his first full season in the N.H.L., where he is the only active player of Indian descent. He is one of three Indians to play in the league, following Manny Malhotra, who finished a 16-season career in 2015, and the 1990s enforcer Robin Bawa. While Khaira is accustomed to the attention that comes with representing a minority in a predominantly white league, he was still taken aback when he found out about Sarai’s comments in the House of Commons. Advertisement “I got a lot of texts from family and friends saying they heard it,” Khaira said after a recent Oilers practice. “I don’t know how to describe it, it’s just really, really cool.” Advertisement Sarai went on to praise Harnarayan Singh, a Punjabi broadcaster for “Hockey Night in Canada” whose “Bonino, Bonino, Bonino” call during the 2016 Stanley Cup finals went viral after Pittsburgh Penguins forward Nick Bonino scored the winning goal in Game 1 against the San Jose Sharks. Since its inception in 2000, the Punjabi broadcast has grown from niche programming to essential viewing for thousands of hockey fans. The Bonino call has been viewed more than 270,000 times on YouTube, and Singh and his team earned an invitation to the Penguins’ victory parade. On Thursday, when the Vancouver Canucks hosted the Oilers, the Punjabi broadcasters and all three Indian N.H.L. players were in the building as part of South Asian Celebration Night. It was the first such event hosted by an N.H.L. team. Malhotra and Bawa played for the Canucks, and Bawa, like Khaira, grew up in British Columbia. According to a 2016 Statistics Canada survey, approximately 4 percent of Canadians are of Indian descent. Khaira’s parents are part of that group, having come to Canada from India when they were children. His mother, Komal Khaira, grew up in Victoria, British Columbia, while his father, Sukhjinder Khaira, grew up in Clearwater, a community of roughly 2,300 people in the province’s interior. They met while students at the University of Victoria, where they were accomplished volleyball players. Khaira’s father also competed at the provincial level.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Growing up as a kid, we had a big property, so we were always outside, and Mom and Dad were always outside with us playing all kinds of sports,” Khaira said. “We had an opportunity to do everything.” In 2012 he was drafted by the Edmonton Oilers in the third round out of the British Columbia Junior Hockey League. After a year in the N.C.A.A. at Michigan Tech, Khaira played the 2013-14 season under Kevin Constantine with the Everett Silvertips of the Western Hockey League. Constantine remembers Khaira well as a high-character individual and a player with a legitimate shot at an N.H.L. career. Advertisement “When I had players to my house, he was always the first into the kitchen after the meal to ask my wife if there was anything he could do to help,” said Constantine, who now coaches the South Korean Daemyung Killer Whales of Asia League Ice Hockey. Khaira, whose favorite player growing up was power forward Todd Bertuzzi, did not hesitate to stick up for teammates. “He had no problem with opponents playing the game hard against him,” Constantine said. “But he had a much shorter fuse when he saw opponents do something he thought inappropriate to teammates.” Khaira spent three years in the American Hockey League, twice earning call-ups to Edmonton. After signing a two-year contract extension this summer, he made the Oilers’ roster out of training camp. After a roller-coaster season for both himself and the team, Khaira remains acutely aware of his potential impact on other players of Indian descent. “I remember, when I was a kid watching ‘Hockey Night in Canada,’ and my brother and I would go in the basement and play mini sticks, and whoever we saw that scored a goal on ‘Hockey Night in Canada,’ we’d want to be that person,” he said. “So if it’s anything like that, I think it’s pretty special.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ELIE MYSTALMARCH 30, 2018
 THE CADAVER KING AND THE COUNTRY DENTIST A True Story of Injustice in the American South By Radley Balko and Tucker Carrington 416 pp. PublicAffairs. $28. America’s bottomless fascination with “true crime” stories and “murder porn” has been capitalized on by some content creators seeking to inspire changes in the criminal justice system. But the genre tends to let the system itself off the hook. The titillating and gory details of any one case narrow readers’ focus onto particular bad actors, relegating law enforcement to a largely offscreen menace. Literature as a tool for social and legal reform further requires the reader to accept the author’s assertion that the highlighted case produced an incorrect result, which is a big ask in a country that can’t even agree on whether Han Solo shot first. “The Cadaver King and the Country Dentist,” by the Washington Post journalist Radley Balko and Tucker Carrington, a law professor at the University of Mississippi, avoids these generic problems. There is no murder mystery. The book details the wrongful convictions of two men, Kennedy Brewer and Levon Brooks, in the separate murders of two girls in the same rural Mississippi town in the early 1990s. But the real killer of both 3-year-olds is revealed to the reader before the wrong men are even put on trial. We are also spared the anguish of wondering if the system will ever get it right, for we know the men have already been freed thanks to the work of the nonprofit criminal exoneration organization the Innocence Project. The crime having been solved early on, Balko and Carrington devote the bulk of the book to pulling back the curtain on the justice system’s little-known but systemic problem that put Brewer and Brooks behind bars: faulty and biased forensic evidence. Junk science convicted these men; real science set them free. The inability of judges and jurors to tell the difference is why innocent men languish in jail while the prosecutors who put them there run for higher office. Mississippi would have been better served by the actual actors from “CSI” conducting its forensic investigations than the autopsy specialist Steven Hayne and his “sidekick,” the bite-mark analyst Michael West. The book isn’t even really about exposing these men, as they’re already disgraced. Instead, Balko and Carrington have written a cry for help: “What happened in Mississippi may be the most wide-reaching scandal to date. Few states have encountered revelations that strike as forcefully at the very foundation of its criminal justice system. And few states’ public officials have shown less concern or taken less action after having learned of the problem.” Advertisement But, like so many who have demanded criminal justice reform, the authors are likely to fail. Not because they’re wrong, or because not enough judges and lawyers and politicians know they’re right. But because fixing the problem is just too hard. The real tension in Balko and Carrington’s book is why it’s too hard — whether our society’s tendency to incarcerate innocent individuals results from basic incompetence, or bald racism. Advertisement The authors propose an answer: “There’s no question that Hayne and West thrived in a system that was created and honed during Jim Crow, and that for decades was used to reinforce the segregated social order. There’s also no question that the system’s problems continue to disproportionately affect minority and poor populations across the state. But no one has described Hayne as a racist. … Instead, Hayne could be described more as an opportunist.” The bigotry in our criminal justice system is one of its key features, not an unfortunate bug. Mississippi wouldn’t allow quack science to convict the wrong people if white citizens primarily bore the burden. The namesake “bad guys” in this book are allowed to exist because their work puts black men behind bars, not in spite of it. What’s the remedy for a person who has been convicted based on so-called science that we now know to be faulty, corrupt or both? One doesn’t need a law degree to answer that question. Common sense or a modicum of human decency suggests that those found guilty based on bad evidence deserve justice. But to grant all such retrials would be too much for this country’s criminal courts to bear. Elie Mystal is the executive editor of Above the Law and a contributing editor for “More Perfect” on WNYC. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast. A version of this review appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BR8 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Innocents Behind Bars.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 9:51 A.M. E.D.T.
 TAIPEI, Taiwan —  People who knew the 18-year-old Taiwanese exchange student charged in the U.S. with threatening to shoot up his school say he liked guns and flamethrowers and had dreams of a police career. An Tso Sun, who has been jailed in the state of Pennsylvania, was "a child who really cares about things," said Cheng Wei-ting, a tutor who home-schooled Sun in Taiwan's capital, Taipei. "He was an extremely simple and kind student, yet he would often have unusual ideas," Cheng said. Sun idealized the famed Taiwanese-American forensics scientist Lee Chang-yu and wanted eventually to study criminal psychology at an American university, his father's friend Tuo Zong-kang told reporters Thursday. "He planned to study in the same fields as Lee, such as criminal psychology and forensics," Tuo said. Advertisement Sun's case comes as school shootings in the United States, including the deaths this month of 17 students and teachers in Parkland, Florida, have triggered some of the biggest youth protests in recent years and calls for stronger gun control measures. Advertisement Sun threatened to commit a shooting on May 1 at the Monsignor Bonner and Archbishop Prendergast High School he attended, according to police in the Pennsylvania town of Upper Darby. They said he had live ammunition, a military-style ballistic vest, ammunition clip pouches and a high-powered crossbow in the home where he was staying in the town of Lansdowne, and had researched how to buy weapons. Sun later said his threat was only a joke, but he was arrested Tuesday and has been charged with making terroristic threats. Defense attorney Enrique Latoison said Wednesday his client "had no intention or plans" to commit a school shooting and many items found were what he wore to school for a Halloween costume contest. He said his client said he was "Just kidding." Sun's latest Facebook post, from October, shows a person dressed in army fatigues, headphones and a brown ski mask carrying what could be an automatic firearm. A February 2017 post that was also his Facebook background cover photo shows orange flames being fired beside a cement wall and stairwells leading into a ravine.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. An earlier Facebook post — one of several flamethrower images on the site — is the image of a book titled "How to Make A Flamethrower: The Do It Yourself Manual." Sun made similar YouTube videos. Sun once made a flamethrower as part of a school science fair, said Cheng, his former tutor. He thought "a day would come when zombies would appear," she added. He had also devised an escape route from his home, she said. Advertisement "What I recall most is that when these school shootings happened in America, he would tell me that if he had been on the scene he would definitely be the first to protect his classmates, so he needs to have a strong physique," said Cheng, who added that she once helped him research how to join a police SWAT team. Sun's parents, actor and assistant film director Sun Peng and actress Di Ying, could not be reached for comment. But Di told Taiwanese broadcaster Sanlih E-Television that her son was a "military affairs fan" who was "making a joke" about his school in the U.S. Tuo, his father's friend, told reporters he remembers Sun as "a very polite kid who had good grades, very disciplined and very kindhearted." "He lives in a family full of warmth, and his parents are very kind to him," Tuo said. Regarding his arrest, he said, "I think it is a very, very big misunderstanding." Before moving to Pennsylvania, the teenager completed two years of high school at the private Kang Chiao International School in New Taipei City, publicity head Wu Hao-ming said. Prior to that, he achieved average grades at the private Wego Elementary School in Taipei, where he was popular among peers and teachers and showed no interest in guns, academic director Liu Jen-hao said. "So this matter (in the United States) we find rather surprising," Liu said. Sun was taken to Delaware County Prison in lieu of $100,000 bail. A preliminary hearing is scheduled for April 11. ___ This story has been corrected to show the tutor's name is Wei-ting, not Chu-yi. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 9:24 P.M. E.D.T.
 OAKLAND, Calif. —  Marcus Semien knew center field was wide open. He just had to put the ball there. Semien did it, beating a five-man infield with one out in the 11th inning to lift the Oakland Athletics over the Los Angeles Angels 6-5 on opening day Thursday. Boog Powell hit a one-out triple off Noe Ramirez (0-1) to start the winning rally. Matt Joyce was intentionally walked to bring up Semien, who delivered his first career game-ending RBI. "There was a lot of infielders and two outfielders, so I just tried to use the big part of the field there," Semien said. Advertisement The Angels got consecutive two-out singles from Martin Maldonado and Zack Cozart in the 11th off Chris Hatcher (1-0) but didn't capitalize. Advertisement Khris Davis hit a three-run homer in the fifth and a tying single in the seventh to almost single-handedly get the A's back in it. Albert Pujols homered leading off the sixth, while Shohei Ohtani connected on the first pitch he saw for a single in a much-hyped major league debut for the Japanese two-way star. Kole Calhoun and Cozart also homered for the Angels to back Garrett Richards, who began this season healthy following two injury-shortened years. Richards left his initial 2017 outing on April 5 at Oakland, then didn't pitch again for the Angels until Sept. 5 because of a rare nerve irritation in his biceps. He missed most of 2016 with a torn ulnar collateral ligament. "I felt fine. The ball was coming out great. The stuff was good," Richards said. "I made one mistake to Khris Davis and unfortunately that happened to be the difference-maker today." Batting eighth as the designated hitter, Ohtani grounded a hard single to right field off Kendall Graveman in the second inning. He grounded out his next three times up before a strikeout in the 11th. "That's probably an at-bat I'm not going to forget for the rest of my life," Ohtani said through interpreter Ippei Mizuhara. "It's my first major league at-bat." Ohtani often looked overmatched in the Cactus League, managing just four singles in 32 at-bats (.125) and striking out 10 times.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The 23-year-old Ohtani said he wasn't nervous as a hitter but "probably" will be when he starts on the mound for the first time in Sunday's series finale against the A's. Advertisement Davis began his quest for a third straight 40-homer season, and Matt Olson tied the game at 4 with a solo shot moments later. Then Pujols chased Graveman with a drive to left — No. 615 of his career — the slugger's fifth career homer on opening day. Graveman allowed five runs and seven hits in five innings with a strikeout and no walks in his second straight opening day start for Oakland. The A's played a day game home opener for the first time since 1994. The Angels, who opened at Oakland for a second straight year, lost their fifth straight season opener after winning the previous five. KEEPING COUNT Moments before Semien's single in the 11th, plate umpire Ted Barrett approached Mike Scioscia during the Angels' sixth mound visit of the game and patted the manager on the back, apparently reminding him of his total. Teams are only allowed six mound visits per game beginning this season, excluding pitching changes, though teams get an extra visit for each extra inning. The rule change is part of baseball's initiatives to help speed up games. NO SELLOUT The A's drew an opening day crowd of 27,764, nearly 21,000 shy of a sellout (48,592) in the newly configured Coliseum. TRAINER'S ROOM Angels: LHP Andrew Heaney, placed on the disabled list retroactive to Monday with inflammation in his pitching elbow, was scheduled to throw a bullpen Friday. "He felt really good coming out of his last bullpen," Scioscia said. "Just see how he feels after tomorrow's pen, during tomorrow's pen and after and maybe get a little more clarity." Heaney will pitch in a game somewhere before being activated, Scioscia said. Athletics: The A's began the season with five players on the DL for the third straight year: RHP Paul Blackburn, RHP Jharel Cotton, RHP Ryan Dull, INF/OF Renato Nunez and C Josh Phegley. UP NEXT Left-hander Tyler Skaggs pitches Friday night for the Angels opposite A's lefty Sean Manaea, a 12-game winner last season. Advertisement ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JOSEPH GOLDSTEINMARCH 30, 2018
 For decades, it has been the federal government’s famous non-answer. “We can neither confirm nor deny …” It emerged in 1975 with the C.I.A.’s response to questions about the agency’s efforts to recover a sunken Soviet submarine in the Pacific. And in the decades since then, it has been used countless times by the C.I.A., F.B.I. and other federal agencies. On Thursday, New York State’s highest court told the New York Police Department that it was free to use the phrase in response to inquiries from citizens who want access to their police files to learn if they have been the subject of surveillance. The ruling, by the state Court of Appeals, carves out a new exemption in the state’s Freedom of Information Law, which has been understood to require local agencies to at least acknowledge the existence of records, even if they were not required to release them. Advertisement But the ruling for the first time allows the New York Police Department to avoid even answering whether such files exist, said Christopher T. Dunn, a New York Civil Liberties Union lawyer who filed a brief in the case. “That’s the ultimate act of secrecy,” Mr. Dunn said. Advertisement The New York Police Department has a reputation for secrecy, often declining to promptly release the kind of documents — complaint reports, use-of-force investigations, officer narratives of arrests — that many other departments disseminate to the news media. In 2016, the New York Police Department stopped releasing basic information about officer discipline, though it recently indicated it would resume releasing some information, though without officers’ names. The case before the court involved public-record requests filed in 2012 by two men to get records relating to any surveillance of them by the police. The men, who are both Muslim, filed the requests after a series of articles by The Associated Press described a secretive Police Department counterterrorism program that conducted extensive surveillance of Muslim organizations and mosques. One of the men, Talib Abdur-Rashid, is the imam of a Harlem mosque. The other man, Samir Hashmi, was a student at Rutgers University and active in its Muslim Student Association. After the Police Department refused to confirm or deny the existence of the records they were requesting, the men sued. The police maintained that even disclosing the existence or nonexistence of any such records — let alone publicly releasing any that existed — would provide too much information. “The knowledge that a person or group is the subject of a N.Y.P.D. counterterrorism investigation would allow that person or group to alter their behavior so as to avoid detection,” the department’s intelligence chief, Thomas Galati, wrote in an affidavit. “Conversely, the knowledge that a person or group is not a subject of investigation would allow such persons to more freely engage in illegal activity.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the court’s majority opinion, Chief Judge Janet DiFiore, accepted that the police needed room to give a non-answer. “The need for government confidentiality may be at its zenith when a law enforcement agency is undertaking a covert investigation of individuals or organizations, where the lives of the public, cooperators and undercover officers may hang precariously in the balance and the reputation, livelihood or liberty of the subject may be at stake,” she wrote. A partially concurring decision by one judge, Rowan Wilson, and a separate dissenting opinion, by Leslie Stein, expressed concern that the majority decision seems to make little distinction between long-ago surveillance related to past investigations and surveillance related to ongoing investigations. Omar T. Mohammedi, a lawyer for the two men, criticized the decision, saying that the court had been swayed by the “fear-mongering” of the New York Police Department. “Our clients are good, law-abiding citizens,” Mr. Mohammedi said. The case did not have to do with counterterrorism investigations — as the police claimed, he said. “It’s not — this case is about abusing Muslims by surveilling them without having any leads on terrorism.” In a statement, the Police Department said it has “rarely” responded to public record requests with a “neither confirm nor deny” answer. “The department will continue to do so only on a very limited basis and where appropriate,” the statement said. But Mr. Dunn, the civil liberties lawyer, expressed concern that the Police Department would keep to that. “The big question is how far they are going to push this,” he said, noting that the Police Department recently issued a “neither confirm nor deny” answer to a public records request the New York Civil Liberties Union had filed that sought information regarding a 2014 Black Lives Matter protest. In that case, the civil liberties union wanted to know if the police had listened to — or jammed — phone calls among demonstrators. Advertisement “They’ve already used it in a protester case,” Mr. Dunn said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Don't mind Kansas or Villanova if the winner starts cutting down nets Saturday night. In the most lopsided Final Four bracket since the tournament was expanded in 1985, these two No. 1 seeds square off in what might as well be called the "Big Boy Semifinal." Barring an injury or something else totally unexpected, the winner will be favored to take the championship two nights later against either third-seeded Michigan or the Sister Jean-inspired 11th-seeded Loyola-Chicago Ramblers. Monday night's game is, naturally, not a topic anybody playing or coaching is very interested in discussing at this point — everyone is well-versed in taking it one game at a time. But it brings up the on-again, off-again discussion of whether the sacred NCAA bracket should be reseeded at some point to ensure the matchup between No. 1s is more likely to take place at the end of the tournament instead of the semifinal. Advertisement "My concern is that the very thing that makes the tournament so popular would be diminished in some way," said Dan Gavitt, the NCAA senior vice president of basketball. "You'd set up barriers as you advance in the tournament that make it harder for the lower seeded teams. Loyola is a great example of, hey, they had one region to play in, there were upsets in that region, and they took advantage of that opportunity." Advertisement Some of the greatest moments in the Final Four have come thanks to underdogs such as Loyola. Two of the poster children for those sort of upsets: Kansas and Villanova. Coached by Larry Brown and led by Danny Manning, "Danny and the Miracles" of Kansas made it to the Final Four as a No. 6 seed in 1988 and beat No. 2 Duke and No. 1 Oklahoma on its way to the title. Three years before that, in the first 64-team tournament, Rollie Massimino's eighth-seeded Wildcats shot 78.6 percent in the final to knock off top-seeded Georgetown 66-64. And yet, neither of those Final Four brackets was as lopsided as this one. This marks the seventh time since 1985 — but only the second time since 2002 — that two No. 1s have squared off in one semifinal with a guarantee they wouldn't face another one in the final. In 1986, when LSU and Duke were in the "other" semifinal, their seedings added up to 13. Michigan and Loyola add to 14. But never have the numbers meant less in the way of predicting winners at the tournament than this year, which featured the first 16-vs-1 upset (UMBC over Virginia), along with the first 9-vs-11 regional final (Kansas State vs. Loyola).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "They might win the national championship," Michigan coach John Beilein said of his opponent Saturday. "So I'm not saying that seeding is wrong. I'm just saying it's an inexact science to try to figure out." In Las Vegas, they try to make setting point spreads an exact science, and the bookies have spoken. Villanova will be a 5 1/2-point favorite over Michigan and a 9 1/2-point favorite over Loyola-Chicago, and Kansas will be a 1 1/2-point favorite over Michigan and 5 1/2-point favorite over Loyola. Villanova is a 5-point pick over Kansas on Saturday. A key matchup in this game involves AP Player of the year Jalen Brunson of Villanova against the X-factor for Kansas, Devonte Graham. Advertisement "It will be a chess match with both of them," KU coach Bill Self said. Part of the beauty of the bracket as currently constructed is that both teams have known they might play each other for more than a week, so they've assigned assistant coaches to break down tape and take copious notes about their possible upcoming opponent. It's one element that would go out the window — to say nothing of the fact that simple-as-pie office pools would be a thing of the past — if the NCAA ever decided to reconfigure the bracket after two rounds, or four. Bottom line: It's sports. There's no way to make everything perfectly fair. "Someone asked our assistants about that and they said, 'Could you imagine winning a game and thinking you get so-and-so for the next game, then all of the sudden, no, you're playing Kansas?'" Villanova coach Jay Wright said. It's a 1 vs. 1 matchup that, Wright insists, is difficult enough to prepare for, even with plenty of time. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Timothy Egan Pope Francis opened the holiest week of the Christian calendar with an admonition to the generation that will own the 21st century. “Dear young people, you have it in you to shout,” he said in his homily. “It is up to you not to keep quiet.” Other voices were more censorious. On “Fox & Friends,” which provides President Trump with steady ration of half-truths and hatreds to fill an empty head and an empty schedule, a co-host had some advice for younger citizens just now learning how to use the wings of democracy. “These 17-year-olds should go back to civics class,” said Pete Hegseth, scowling at the March for Our Lives demonstrators. Actually, civics class has come to them, in the form of a hail of bullets from a weapon of war that is legal because of a broken political system. They’ve been forced, by triage, to learn how to use the tools of democracy that were largely denied them by passive educators. It’s no secret that in the rush to produce adults who are adept at applying science and technology to modern life, we left them ill-trained in the basic duties of citizenship. Nearly a third of Americans cannot name a single branch of government, and almost 40 percent are unable to cite a right guaranteed by the First Amendment. But it’s not the kids who are the doofuses. “There’s a big difference between being ignorant and being stupid,” said Sonia Sotomayor, associate justice of the Supreme Court. She’s been touring the country — 38 states so far — promoting civic competence among the young, a virtue that used to be a bedrock part of American education. “No one is born a citizen,” she said during a stopover in Seattle. “You have to be taught what that means.” The teaching, for a generation that has come of age since the 1999 Columbine massacre, for the 187,000 students who have experienced a shooting on campus during school since then, has been largely do-it-yourself. Only a handful of states require proficiency in civics and government as a condition of graduation. The educational system, with its fear of confrontational topics and its corporate-driven emphasis on STEM, has failed them. But one of the great surprises of the Trump era is the renaissance of civic engagement — at a level of urgency not seen in half a century. It’s a reaction to severe stress on democracy; Trump is both the cause, and leading symptom, of that stress. The awakening started with the revulsion of women — at a president who is credibly accused of sleeping with porn stars while his wife nursed their newborn child and who bragged of sexual assault, and at his daily slights to truth, dignity and other values that mothers teach their children. And now it’s the young’s turn. Critical thinking has arrived at a critical time. They’re not afraid of trolls; they grew up with snark from a screen. So after Laura Ingraham at Fox taunted a Parkland shooting survivor for not getting into his college of choice, the student immediately tweeted out a list of her advertisers. When they threatened to bail, she apologized. “These self-righteous kids screaming at you on television over the weekend aren’t helping out at all,” said Tucker Carlson, another Fox scold. As he knows, they are helping — but just not his side. “First we march, then we vote,” was a leading slogan of the demonstrations. The problem is that Americans are among the least-active voters in developed countries — another consequence, I would argue, of not teaching the manual of democracy in school. And young people are the least likely to vote. “Adults mess up a lot,” Sotomayor told the high school kids in her audience in Seattle. “We don’t have all the answers. We need you to come up with fresher and better ideas.” So today, these young people wonder why even the most obvious legislation, universal background checks on all gun purchases, can’t pass in Congress despite support from 90 percent of the public. They learn quickly that it’s because a single lobby owns the politicians. The obvious solution, which jaded political minds often forget, is to vote the bums out. It’s not complicated. And again, it shouldn’t be a D.I.Y. thing. Let’s teach people how to tell fake news from real news. They do this in Italy, and many universities in the United States have taken it up as well. It should be, like learning road signs before you can get a driver’s license, one of the courses that everyone takes before getting out of high school. Democracies die when citizens feel powerless. The biggest stress test will come if Trump fires the special counsel Robert Mueller. Then, all the people new to the process will see what a constitutional crisis looks like. But thanks to recent, real-life lessons, they’ll recognize it for what it is. And they won’t feel powerless to do something about it. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan). Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:51 P.M. E.D.T.
 LOS ANGELES —  Coffee sellers will have to post ominous warnings in California because each cup contains a chemical linked to cancer, a judge ruled. The culprit is a byproduct of the bean roasting process that is a known carcinogen and has been at the heart of an eight-year legal struggle between a tiny nonprofit group and Big Coffee. The Council for Education and Research on Toxics wanted the coffee industry to remove acrylamide from its processing — like potato chip makers did when it sued them years ago — or disclose the possible risk in signs or labels. The industry, led by Starbucks Corp., said the level of the chemical in coffee isn't harmful and any risks are outweighed by benefits. Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle said Wednesday that the coffee makers hadn't presented the proper grounds at trial to prevail. Advertisement "While plaintiff offered evidence that consumption of coffee increases the risk of harm to the fetus, to infants, to children and to adults, defendants' medical and epidemiology experts testified that they had no opinion on causation," Berle wrote in his proposed ruling. "Defendants failed to satisfy their burden of proving ... that consumption of coffee confers a benefit to human health." Advertisement The suit was brought against Starbucks and 90 companies under a law passed by California voters in 1986 that has been credited with culling cancer-causing chemicals from myriad products and also criticized for leading to quick settlement shakedowns. The Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act, better known as Proposition 65, requires warning labels for about 900 chemicals known to cause cancer or birth defects. It allows private citizens, advocacy groups and attorneys to sue on behalf of the state and collect a portion of civil penalties for failure to provide warnings. "This lawsuit has made a mockery of Prop. 65, has confused consumers, and does nothing to improve public health," said William Murray, president and CEO of the National Coffee Association, who added that coffee had been shown to be a healthy beverage. Scientific evidence on coffee has gone back and forth for a long time, but concerns have eased recently about possible dangers of coffee, with some studies finding health benefits. In 2016, the cancer agency of the World Health Organization moved coffee off its "possible carcinogen" list. Studies indicate coffee is unlikely to cause breast, prostate or pancreatic cancer, and it seems to lower the risks for liver and uterine cancers, the agency said. Evidence is inadequate to determine its effect on dozens of other cancer types. Coffee companies have said it's not feasible to remove acrylamide from their product without ruining the flavor. Advertisement But attorney Raphael Metzger, who brought the lawsuit and drinks a few cups of coffee a day, said the industry could remove the chemical without impairing taste.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I firmly believe if the potato chip industry can do it, so can the coffee industry," Metzger said. "A warning won't be that effective because it's an addictive product." Many coffee shops have already posted warnings that say acrylamide is cancer-causing chemical found in coffee. But signs that are supposed to be posted at the point of sale are often found in places not easily visible, such as below the counter where cream and sugar are available. Customers at shops that post warnings are often unaware or unconcerned about them. Afternoon coffee drinkers at a Los Angeles Starbucks said they might look into the warning or give coffee drinking a second thought after the ruling, but the cup of joe was likely to win out. "I just don't think it would stop me," said Jen Bitterman, a digital marketing technologist. "I love the taste, I love the ritual, I love the high, the energy, and I think I'm addicted to it." Darlington Ibekwe, a lawyer in Los Angeles, said a cancer warning would be annoying but wouldn't stop him from treating himself to three lattes a week. "It's like cigarettes. Like, damn, now I've got to see this?" he said. "Dude, I'm enjoying my coffee." The defendants have a couple weeks to challenge the ruling before it is final and could seek relief from an appellate court. If the ruling stands, it could come with a stiff financial penalty and could rattle consumers beyond state lines. Advertisement The judge can set another phase of trial to consider potential civil penalties up to $2,500 per person exposed each day over eight years. That could be an astronomical sum in a state with close to 40 million residents, though such a massive fine is unlikely. California's outsized market could make it difficult to tailor packaging with warning labels specifically to stores in the state. That means out-of-state coffee drinkers could also take their coffee with a cancer warning. Cream and sugar would still be optional. ___ Associated Press writer Amanda Lee Myers in Los Angeles and AP Chief Medical Writer Marilynn Marchione in Milwaukee contributed to this story. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 7:30 P.M. E.D.T.
 ATLANTA —  Darius Bazley wants to be a pioneer. Sure, three others have taken a straight line from high school to the NBA development league. But Bazley is one of the nation's best high school players, so everyone perked up when he announced his intention to spend a season in the minors rather than a couple of sham semesters posing as a student. In the end, we can only hope his decision leads to a truly seismic shift in the game. Maybe Bazley will be the one who finally brings down the silly one-and-done rule. Rest assured, everyone will benefit from such a change: — The scandal-ridden college game might miss out on a handful of top recruits each season, but it would continue to thrive with the players it gets. And who knows? Maybe it would actually help cut down on some of the rampant corruption . Advertisement — The NBA could start developing prospects right out of high school in a pro-based system, competing with and against players who've had experience in the league without having to rush those who aren't ready. Advertisement — The G League would get an influx of big-time talent at a time when it's making a major push to raise its profile. All but three NBA teams have their own minor-league affiliate and some cities are even building new arenas to lure franchises. — The players, of course, would get to decide whether they want to go to college or start making a living right away. You know, like everyone else (with the notable exception of high school football stars, who must go to college for three years if they want to play in the NFL). Bazley, a 6-foot-9 forward from Cincinnati, initially committed to play next season for Jim Boeheim at Syracuse. Then, after competing this week in the McDonald's All-American Game in Atlanta, he revealed that he intends to play in the G League instead of for the Orange on his way to the NBA. Naturally, that set off frenzied speculation about the impact of Bazley's decision. Will other top prospects follow his lead? Is playing in the G League a better way to bolster one's draft prospects and prepare for the NBA? As long as the current system remains in place — requiring a player to be 19 and a year removed from high school before entering the NBA draft pool — Bazley is likely to be an outlier. With the G League offering salaries of only around $25,000, it still makes more sense to play a year in a high-profile college program — or, if you must, go overseas to play for far more money, the path taken by Brandon Jennings when he went to Europe. But Bazley believes his decision will pay off in the end. And not just for him. "I'm aware that this might start a trend, and that's one of the reasons why I am doing this," Bazley told Yahoo Sports, sounding mature enough to be in the NBA right now. "This is going to happen down the road and become more common. But someone has to start the fire — and I believe I'm going to do that, and it's very important to me." Advertisement Kansas coach Bill Self is in San Antonio for the Final Four and wouldn't mind getting rid of the one-and-done system.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He does object to the path Bazley has chosen. "I do believe kids should be able to go (to the NBA) out of high school," Self said Friday. "I don't believe that they should be able to go to the G League out of high school. To me, putting themselves in a situation in the G League where they're not eligible to be an NBA player, there will be a percentage of kids that make that decision — whether it be academic, whether it be whatever decision — that will never ever experience being an NBA basketball player. "And then what do they have when that's gone?" Good point, coach. That's why we need to dump the barrier that prevents Bazley and those like him from pursuing their NBA dreams as soon as they become legal adults. If they can vote and fight wars, they should be able to sign professional contracts and not just letters of intent. Of course, most high school players would still be best-served by entering college, and no doubt that's the route most of them would continue to take even if the NBA draft was an option. Just look back to 2005, the last time prep players were eligible for the draft. Only three first-round picks came from U.S. high schools, led by largely forgettable Martell Webster going to Portland at No. 6 overall. Another six prepsters were selected in the second round — which, it should be noted, worked out just fine for Louis Williams, C.J. Miles and Amir Johnson, who are all still in the league. "I still think they're going to have some talent wanting to play in college," said Udoka Azubuike, a sophomore center at Kansas. "If you're talented enough to go from high school to the NBA, I don't see no reason why you shouldn't. If you want to go from college to the NBA, that's fine." If anything, there's never been a more appropriate time to make this most obvious of changes. The four teams in San Antonio — Kansas, Michigan, Villanova and Loyola — have proven that a freshman prodigy is not required to win a national championship. Kentucky and Duke , both loaded with one-and-done prospects, are nowhere to be found. Michigan's Moe Wagner passed up a chance to play professionally after completing high school in his native Germany. He has no regrets as he finishes up his junior season playing on one of the biggest stages . "Obviously it let me grow as a basketball player, but most importantly as a person," he said. "It's been significant for me and my life, and I'm very happy I'm here." Advertisement The one-and-done is no longer needed. Let's just make it done. ___ Paul Newberry is a sports columnist for The Associated Press. Write to him at pnewberry@ap.org or at www.twitter.com/pnewberry1963 . His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/paul%20newberry ___ AP Sports Writers Aaron Beard and Stephen Hawkins and Associated Press writer Raul Dominguez in San Antonio contributed to this report. ___ For more AP college basketball and NBA coverage: www.collegebasketball.ap.org , www.twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By CHARLES McDERMID and MERRILL D. OLIVERMARCH 30, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. A private autopsy found that Stephon Clark, the unarmed black man who was killed by the Sacramento police in his grandmother’s backyard, had been shot eight times from behind or the side. The autopsy also concluded that Mr. Clark’s death was not instantaneous, raising questions about why he had not been given more immediate medical care. The Sacramento police, who released the photo of the shooting above, did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the private autopsy. A lawyer said the findings proved that Mr. Clark could not have been moving in a threatening fashion toward Sacramento officers when they opened fire. ____ 2. “These are difficult times in the Russia-U.S. relationship.”  That was Washington’s new ambassador to Moscow, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who is already under pressure as Russia continued its retaliatory expulsions of Western diplomats. Advertisement On Friday, the Kremlin summoned 23 ambassadors to issue eviction orders. The ambassadors were told that their diplomatic staffs would be cut by the same number as had been lost by Russian embassies in their own capitals. (More than 150 Russian diplomats were recently ousted in a coordinated Western effort.) The U.S. Consulate in St. Petersburg was ordered to shut. Advertisement The expulsions and counter-expulsions started with the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in England. ____ 3. Hope Hicks has left the building.  Thursday was the last day for Ms. Hicks, the White House communications director known for her close ties to President Trump. There is now a palpable worry in the West Wing about whom the president will confide in — and how many other people might be able to occasionally pull him back — now that Ms. Hicks is gone. Having trouble keeping track of all the turnover in the Trump administration? You’re not alone. Here’s our running tally. ____ 4. David J. Pecker, the tabloid media mogul whose company owns The National Enquirer, has always showcased his ties to President Trump. (And has long worked to protect Mr. Trump’s image.) The friendship started in the 1990s, when Mr. Trump was on a real estate comeback after his casino bankruptcies and was deeply enmeshed in New York gossip. In a previously untold chapter in this relationship, a Times report looks at how Mr. Pecker used his powerful friend as he tried to expand his publishing business into Saudi Arabia. So far, the outcome of his efforts remains unclear. ____ 5. Jurors in Orlando, Fla., acquitted Noor Salman, the widow of the man who gunned down dozens of people at the Pulse nightclub two years ago. She had been charged with aiding and abetting a terrorist act and obstructing justice. Here’s a video of how that attack unfolded. Advertisement The verdict marked a rare setback for federal prosecutors, who have a strong record of convictions in terrorism trials. Ms. Salman, 31, would have faced a sentence of up to life in prison had she been convicted. Across the courtroom, Pulse victims and their families sat in silence. “We respect their verdict,” one of the prosecutors said. ____ 6. At least 15 Palestinians were reported killed by Israeli soldiers along the border fence with Gaza. The bloodshed came at what was meant to be a series of peaceful protests. Soon after the rally began, the Israeli military reported that protesters were rioting, rolling burning tires and hurling stones. Later, the military said that Palestinians threw Molotov cocktails at soldiers and that it had thwarted a shooting attack in northern Gaza and an attempt to infiltrate the border. The Palestinian Health Ministry in Gaza said that more than 1,000 had been injured. ____ 7. “My only remorse is not being able to do more than dedicating my life to my country.” Our Overlooked series remembers the life of Yu Gwan-sun, a Korean independence activist who organized peaceful protests against Japan’s colonial rule. Ms. Yu was tortured to death at 17, but is remembered as the face of Korea’s 35-year fight for independence. ____ 8. Say it ain’t so, Joe. Big Coffee is bracing to fight a California judge’s ruling that would require the beverage to be branded with cancer warning labels. (Yes, you read that right.) Advertisement The ruling stems from a 2010 lawsuit that charged that Starbucks and other companies did not warn consumers that ingesting coffee would expose them to acrylamide, a chemical formed when coffee beans are roasted. ____ 9. From the long ball to “Moneyball.” As a new Major League Baseball season dawns, our columnist looks at how the national pastime is evolving. It’s not a question of if things will change, many baseball people say, only when and how. For the time being, here are our previews for the American and National Leagues. (And we bid farewell to Rusty Staub, a tough redheaded hitter who made six All-Star teams in a 23-year career. He died Thursday at 73.) ____ 10. First, the Final Four times two.  The semifinals of the N.C.A.A. Women’s Tournament tip off at 7 p.m. with Mississippi State playing Louisville. After that, undefeated UConn faces Notre Dame. As UConn chases its 12th national title, our columnist ponders whether such dominance is good for the sport. On Saturday, in the men’s tourney, Loyola Chicago, a No. 11 seed, will play third-seeded Michigan, before Villanova, the 2016 champion, faces a fellow top seed, Kansas. And with two representatives in this Final Four, Loyola and Villanova, we examined why Catholic colleges excel at basketball. ____ 11. Finally, here’s a flyaround look at Easter celebrations across the globe. One highlight came on Holy Thursday, when Pope Francis washed the feet of prisoners in Rome — including two Muslims, an Orthodox Christian and a Buddhist. Advertisement “Everyone always has the opportunity to change life,” Francis said, “and one cannot judge.” Have a great night. Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By IAN AUSTENMARCH 30, 2018
 Peter Munk, the Canadian who built the world’s largest gold-mining company, years after suffering one of his country’s most notable business failures, died on Wednesday in Toronto. He was 90. Barrick Gold, the company he founded, announced the death but did not give a cause. Mr. Munk wore a pacemaker and had dealt with heart problems for several years. An outsider in Canada — his preference for fedoras alone set him apart — and a former escapee from Nazi-occupied Hungary, Mr. Munk initially tried out several different lines of business, including stereo equipment and resorts in Fiji. Not all were successful, but he never appeared deterred by his failures. Barrick itself started out as an oil company that endured three years of losses. Then Mr. Munk began acquiring gold mines in Canada and the United States. Most were small ventures. But in 1986 he bought Goldstrike, a mine in Nevada that was estimated to hold 600,000 ounces of gold. As it turned out, it held more than 21 million ounces, making it the richest deposit outside of South Africa at the time. Advertisement Barrick grew through expansion, and with the acquisition in 2006 of Placer Dome, a British Columbia-based mining company, it became the world’s largest gold miner. Advertisement And it made Mr. Munk immensely wealthy, though there are few good estimates of his fortune. He controlled Barrick without holding most of its shares. In 2013, it was estimated that he owned only 0.2 percent of its stock. But Mr. Munk led the life of an international billionaire. He had three homes in Ontario and houses in Paris and Switzerland, where he remained a keen skier late in life, and took to the sea in a 140-foot-long yacht, the Golden Eagle. His associates included Prince Charles; fellow billionaires like Bernard Arnault, the chairman and chief executive of the French luxury goods maker LVMH; and Brian Mulroney, the former Conservative prime minister of Canada. As Barrick expanded globally, Mr. Munk often dealt with governments with widely condemned human-rights records. He devoted part of Barrick’s annual meeting in 1996 to praising the economic program of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former military dictator in Chile, although Mr. Munk subsequently condemned General Pinochet’s human rights abuses in a letter to the newspaper The Globe and Mail. An electrical engineer by training, Mr. Munk often attributed his success at Barrick to his lack of a mining background. That meant, he said, that he made decisions about his company almost entirely from a financial perspective, introducing measures that offset the inevitable financial risks of mining. “For 100 years it was assumed that a successful mining company had to be run by miners,” he told The Economist in 2014. “What I did know was how to run a business. The investor doesn’t give a damn about what you know about mining. They want results.” For all of Barrick’s later success, it was his stereo equipment company, Clairtone — Mr. Munk’s first big venture and his greatest humiliation — that most shaped his approach to business. Advertisement “Clairtone was the single-most formative experience in my life, because it was so traumatic,” he told The New York Times in 1993. He set off to manufacture stereo equipment in 1959 with David Gilmour, a friend, and the help of 2,800 Canadian dollars from the father of Mr. Munk’s first wife, the former Linda Gutterson. The audio gear became popular internationally as much for its futuristic design as for its sound. Clairtone stereos appeared in films starring Frank Sinatra and Sean Connery. The company’s success led to a move from Toronto to a large manufacturing plant in Nova Scotia, drawn in part by the province’s offer of 7 million Canadian dollars in assistance. Overwhelmed by a variety of problems, however, including an unsuccessful move into television and poor management of the company’s growth, the founders were ousted in 1968. Clairtone collapsed six years later. Mr. Munk was born into a Jewish family in Budapest on Nov. 8, 1927. When the Nazis occupied Hungary in 1944, Mr. Munk’s grandfather Gabriel, a chocolate distributor and real estate investor, used most of the family fortune to secure train passage to Switzerland for 14 family members, including Mr. Munk and his father, Lajos. The trip was organized by the Hungarian journalist Rezso Kasztner, who was credited with saving thousands of Hungarian Jews by shepherding them to Switzerland. By then Mr. Munk’s parents had long been divorced, and his mother, the former Katharina Adler, did not join the group. She was later sent to Auschwitz but survived. By some accounts, his mother is credited with suggesting that Mr. Munk join an uncle in Canada. At 20, he left Switzerland for Toronto on a student visa to study at the University of Toronto. The odd jobs that financed his studies included selling Christmas trees. “When he landed in Canada, he was stunned by what he viewed as a relatively pleasant atmosphere,” said Anna Porter, a friend, former publisher and author of a book about Kasztner and his wartime rescue missions. Advertisement Throughout his business career, Mr. Munk publicly bemoaned the sale of Canadian corporations to foreign investors. “He chose to see himself as a nationalist,” Ms. Porter said. His first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the former Melanie Jane Bosanquet, whom he married in 1973; five children, Anthony, Nina, Marc-David and Natalie Munk and Cheyne Munk Beys; and 14 grandchildren. In addition to Barrick, Mr. Munk controlled Trizec Properties, whose holdings included the Watergate complex in Washington until 2006. Mr. Munk retired from Barrick in 2014, but he continued to insist in interviews that he had never stopped working. As a philanthropist, Mr. Munk donated about 300 million Canadian dollars (about $232 million in American money today) to a variety of medical and academic centers. He also devoted much of his time to turning a former naval base in Montenegro into a superyacht marina. When he sold the marina in 2016, Mr. Munk told The Globe and Mail that when he first arrived in Montenegro, appearing to many as a Canadian interloper, he was greeted with more than suspicion. “I was threatened physically,” he said. “They spat on my taxi.” But he won the Montenegrins over, he said. “Today they love what we’ve done,” he said. A headline with an earlier version of this obituary misstated Mr. Munk’s age at his death. He was 90, not 92. An earlier version of this obituary misspelled the name of a company controlled by Mr. Munk. It is Trizec Properties, not Trizac. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Peter Munk, 90, Dies; Builder of a Mining Empire.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Streaming  By                     
 GLENN KENNY
 
MARCH 30, 2018
 There are not a whole lot of what one could call “Easter movies,” perhaps because there’s no suspense involved in the holiday itself. While a good number of Christmas movies hinge on the question of whether a Christmas celebration will happen, or happen properly — this is a thread that runs from “It’s a Wonderful Life” to “The Santa Clause” and its ilk, including “Santa Claus Conquers the Martians” — families celebrating Easter don’t typically worry about pulling it off, so to speak. Unless cooking a rosemary-and-garlic leg of lamb — or hiding some chocolate eggs — poses a challenge. The most prominent Easter Bunny movie for rent or purchase from Amazon Video, YouTube, Vudu, Google Play and iTunes is the 2011 film “Hop.” It is a terrible computer-animated picture in which the Easter Bunny excretes jelly beans. No, really. If you’d like to punish your children, that might be a good option. Once that’s out of the way (it is not in the bailiwick of this column to consider the many kitschy Easter bunny television specials available on streaming), that leaves the religious pictures. FilmStruck’s Criterion Channel has the director Cecil B. DeMille’s 1927 epic, “King of Kings,” which proved a seminal influence on the mainstream Bible picture. The movie is, of course, a silent, which some children and even some younger film critics may look at as punishment, so you’ve been warned. George Stevens’s 1965 film, “The Greatest Story Ever Told,” also on demand, is an unwieldy film of frequently awkward earnestness. Emblematic of its noble but stilted ambitions is its casting of the Swedish actor Max von Sydow as Jesus Christ. The movie is festooned with cameos from the superstars of the time, from Shelley Winters to Sal Mineo to John Wayne. They were considered distracting at the time of release, and it would be interesting to watch the movie with an audience that has no idea who these figures are. Advertisement Because the Christ story occurs at the sidelines of “Ben Hur,” the movies made from the Lew Wallace novel, about a Jerusalem prince turned slave and then turned Christian, are perhaps the most purely entertaining of such pictures. The 1925 silent-film version can be watched free, for now, on YouTube. But if you are a FilmStruck subscriber, it’s on that service’s TCM Selects as part of its new “Tales Of Christ” package. As is, of course, the award-winning 1959 version directed by William Wyler and starring Charlton Heston. The 2016 version directed by Timur Bekmambetov and starring Jack Huston can be viewed on demand from Amazon Prime and other platforms. My preference is the 1959 picture but all three have amazing chariot-race sequences. Advertisement Other pictures in the FilmStruck package include the 1961 remake of “King of Kings,” directed by Nicholas Ray, the creator of “Rebel Without a Cause.” While Ray was, in many respects, DeMille’s antithesis, his “King” is not quite as idiosyncratic a vision as a curious cinephile might hope for. Still, any movie that casts Robert Ryan as John the Baptist has to be doing something right. Pier Paolo Pasolini’s wonderful “The Gospel According to St. Matthew” (1964) and Franco Zeffirelli’s 1977 mini-series, “Jesus of Nazareth,” round out the package  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then there are the more controversial items. Mel Gibson’s “The Passion of the Christ,” from 2004, which depicts Christ’s persecution and crucifixion in grueling detail and veers into horror-movie territory once Judas reckons with his betrayal, is on demand. Though the movie was subjected to a good deal of critical disapprobation, it was wildly popular. Martin Scorsese’s “The Last Temptation of Christ” (1988), adapted from a novel by Nikos Kazantzakis, was condemned as blasphemous by many pundits (a good number of whom didn’t bother to actually see it) and the target of protests and angry rallies. It is a sensitive, thoughtful, but hardly staid consideration of the dual nature of Christ and can be seen on the Criterion Channel of FilmStruck. (Mr. Scorsese’s most recent film, “Silence,” also about the Christian faith, was considerably less provocative — it even screened at the Vatican.) Moving from sacred subject matter to profane comedy: Adam Sandler is not the only comedic Adam staking cinematic territory on Netflix. There’s also Adam Devine, the sketch comedian who is a co-creator of the Comedy Central series “Workaholics,” which started in 2011. Two pictures starring Mr. Devine recently had their premieres on Netflix. Having watched them, all I can say is his work can only go uphill from here. I reviewed “Game Over, Man!” here last month, and the movie does not improve on reflection. I have been moved to wonder, though, if maybe, in addition to them, it’s me. Am I too old for the movie’s constant barrage of over-the-top gross-out humor? As someone who still roars with laughter at Redd Foxx’s vintage standup routine titled “You Gotta Wash Your Ass,” I don’t necessarily think so. I referred to the movie’s vulgarity as “listless,” and I think that’s the problem: The jokes are lazy, obvious and have a casual contempt for their objects and subjects. It’s stoner humor brought to the level of insensibility. In early February, Netflix debuted “When We First Met,” a romantic comedy starring Mr. Devine and Alexandria Daddario. Written by John Whittington and directed by Ari Sandel, it’s a cross between “Big” and “Groundhog Day,” with some “When Harry Met Sally” thrown in, had “Harry” been written by a team of bros instead of by Nora Ephron. Mr. Devine plays Noah, a slightly schlubby but good-hearted fellow besotted with Ms. Daddario’s Avery, with whom he’s been platonic friends for three frustrating years, despite their “clicking” in certain ways when they met. But Noah finds a magical photo booth that transports him back in time, to the night he met Avery, and he tries different strategies to win her. The “what do women want?” question recurs, and in Avery’s case, the answer, each time, turns out to be kind of venal. This is a sour route on which to find true love. It’s not an amusing one, either. Compared with “Game Over, Man!” however, “When We First Met” actually does look like “When Harry Met Sally.” A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page AR11 of the New York edition with the headline: Holiday Hunt Leads To a Basket of Oldies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JESSE GREENMARCH 29, 2018
 Her jaw thrust forward like a prow, her elfin eyes belying her regal bearing, her wide-screen mouth wrapping itself around those slashing, implacable consonants — they’re all exactly as you remember them and want them to be. Or if you’ve never experienced them, welcome to the pleasure. Either way, Glenda Jackson is back; even better, she’s back in a role that’s big enough to need her. Aptly, the name of the role is A. A is the oldest of Edward Albee’s “Three Tall Women,” which opened on Thursday night in a torrentially exciting production that also stars Laurie Metcalf and Alison Pill. It not only puts an exclamation point on Ms. Jackson’s long-shelved acting career but also serves as a fitting memorial, which is to say a hilarious and horrifying one, to Albee, who died in 2016. Though “Three Tall Women” won him his third Pulitzer Prize, in 1994, and marked his return from the critical wilderness after two decades of disrepute, this is the play’s Broadway premiere. Joe Mantello’s chic, devastating staging at the Golden Theater was worth the wait. The wait for Ms. Jackson seemed less likely to be rewarded. A highbrow star of classy film and television in the 1970s, with two best actress Oscars and a handful of Emmys, she pulled the plug on her acting career in 1992 when elected to the House of Commons on the Labour ticket. That doesn’t mean she stopped performing, exactly, as her fiery speeches often proved. Advertisement But by the time she retired from politics, in 2015, few expected the 79-year-old to show up onstage again. Then came an exhilarating “King Lear” at the Old Vic in 2016, announcing that Ms. Jackson had lost none of her power and verve. Advertisement So how do you top “King Lear”? In a way, “Three Tall Women” — a comedy about decrepitude or a tragedy about survival, depending on how you look at it — is “Queen Lear” in a fun house mirror. A is a rich old lady, 92 but vainly pretending to be 91: a fossil of the old guard with all the imperiousness, mischief and grit that suggests. She spends most of her time abusing the memory of a bad marriage and an even worse son — worse because gay. Still, you are never sure how much of what she says is true; her grievances, like her racism, anti-Semitism and homophobia, seem almost rote. For A, hanging on to a sense of identity means maintaining the enamel shell of her narcissism even as she forgets what she once found so fascinating inside it. Ms. Jackson, in a lilac dressing gown and a marcelled silver wig, digs deep into that contradiction, producing huge laughs from the grim idea that awfulness is a damn good habit as death hovers. The audience for her awfulness, in the first act anyway, consists of Ms. Metcalf as B, her fiftyish seen-it-all caretaker, and Ms. Pill as C, an uptight twentysomething emissary from her lawyer’s office, trying to bring order to a chaos of unpaid bills. Ms. Metcalf, spiky and floppy, is particularly mordant in this material, sometimes bullying and sometimes coddling A in an effort to get through another unpleasant day with minimal fuss. Confined to her employer’s grand bedroom, she is a visual joke, stomping around in gray pants and sneakers. Ms. Pill, in the least developed role, nevertheless suggests a youthful vanity as powerful as A’s. In her own hard shell of a navy pinstripe suit, she is tart, verging on pitiless; you feel her need to distance herself from the prospect of becoming exactly the same kind of woman. And then, in the second act, here performed continuously with the first, her nightmare comes true. Having slyly acclimatized the audience to a naturalistic comedy about the frailty of memory, Albee gleefully reshuffles the cards. After a boffo stage trick straight out of vaudeville, he lands you in a newly arranged world, in which A, B and C are no longer different women but the same one, refracted, at different ages.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the new configuration, with the whole cast dressed in coordinated purples — the superb costumes are by Ann Roth — the tone darkens even as the play remains raucously funny. You may never have heard a dirty story about a man’s anatomy told as Ms. Jackson does in the second act, but A, B and C, now a living time-lapse photograph, have more at stake in one another’s success, and more at risk in failure. Perhaps that’s because they are all, in essence, Albee’s mother, who (he always said) bought him from an adoption agency for $133.30 and forever after hoped to return him. “Three Tall Women” is based, in part, on conversations she had with him about her life, marriage and unhappy parenthood. In more ways than one, Albee hovers about the action. Advertisement But unlike in much of his early work, he does not insist on dominating it. “Three Tall Women” is rigorous but also generous, even loving, to its characters — and audience. It honors the women’s flintiness and fear as C swears not to become B and B hopes not to become A. In doing so, it slips Beckettian existentialism through the commercial barricades by disguising it as comfortable mainstream entertainment. Well, not always comfortable. By the end, when Ms. Jackson gives voice to A’s terror as her faculties wane, and considers the idea that death will be a relief, you may be struck, as I was most recently in the Signature Theater’s revival of “At Home at the Zoo,” by Albee’s willingness to go anywhere. Or rather, his unwillingness not to. That doesn’t mean this is a perfect play. Given the Cubist structure, it’s not surprising that the themes eventually start to recycle with more panache than novelty. And C, as written, does not always stand for compelling. Still, time has been good to “Three Tall Women,” and Mr. Mantello’s production further burnishes its insights and confirms its originality. The staging tricks enhance the ones that Albee built in, with Miriam Buether’s astonishing set design, at first so pretty and cozy, holding unexpected dimensions of alienation in store. The lighting (by Paul Gallo) and subtle sound design (by Fitz Patton) beautifully support the idea of a play slipping identities in the same way its characters do. Finally, though, it comes back to the actors. Ms. Jackson’s history with us, and her aura of indomitability, mean that she is not merely a casting coup for A but a natural advocate for the play’s central themes. She is, politically and personally, the embodiment of not going gentle into that good night; death and Thatcherism are all the same to her. And though Ms. Metcalf and Ms. Pill look nothing like Ms. Jackson, or each other, they bring more important skills and associations to their roles. Ms. Metcalf, once known for tragedy but now transformed into a peerless comedian (thanks to “Roseanne,” “A Doll’s House, Part 2” and “Lady Bird”), is thus a very Albee creature. And it is not irrelevant, seeing Ms. Pill’s just-holding-it-together C, to think of the devastated young woman she played, under Mr. Mantello’s direction, in the Off Broadway premiere of “Blackbird.” Watching these three women in “Three Tall Women” means seeing the ghosts and echoes of many other women as well. They complete Albee’s imaginative leap into difficult souls, which of course means all of us. And they honor a play that despite its frailties and wrinkles has aged beautifully, into a burning, raving classic. John Golden Theater 252 W. 45th St. Midtown West 212-239-6200 Category Broadway, Play, Drama Runtime 1 hr. and 45 min. Credits Written by Edward Albee; Directed by Joe Mantello Cast Glenda Jackson, Laurie Metcalf and Alison Pill Preview February 27, 2018 Opened March 29, 2018 Closing Date  June 24, 2018 
                This information was last updated: April 4, 2018  Follow Jesse Green on Twitter: @JesseKGreen. A version of this review appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Queen Lear  Moments.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. But our primary goal is that this feature adds value to your reading experience. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:21 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  Russian ships are skulking around underwater communications cables, causing the U.S. and its allies to worry the Kremlin might be taking information warfare to new depths. Is Moscow interested in cutting or tapping the cables? Does it want the West to worry it might? Is there a more innocent explanation? Unsurprisingly, Russia isn't saying. But whatever Moscow's intentions, U.S. and Western officials are increasingly troubled by their rival's interest in the 400 fiber-optic cables that carry most of world's calls, emails and texts, as well as $10 trillion worth of daily financial transactions. "We've seen activity in the Russian navy, and particularly undersea in their submarine activity, that we haven't seen since the '80s," Gen. Curtis Scaparrotti, commander of the U.S. European Command, told Congress this month. Advertisement Without undersea cables, a bank in Asian countries couldn't send money to Saudi Arabia to pay for oil. U.S. military leaders would struggle to communicate with troops fighting extremists in Afghanistan and the Middle East. A student in Europe wouldn't be able to Skype his parents in the United States. Advertisement All this information is transmitted along tiny glass fibers encased in undersea cables that, in some cases, are little bigger than a garden hose. All told, there are 620,000 miles of fiber-optic cable running under the sea, enough to loop around the earth nearly 25 times. Most lines are owned by private telecommunications companies, including giants like Google and Microsoft. Their locations are easily identified on public maps, with swirling lines that look like spaghetti. While cutting one cable might have limited impact, severing several simultaneously or at choke points could cause a major outage. The Russians "are doing their homework and, in the event of a crisis or conflict with them, they might do rotten things to us," said Michael Kofman, a Russian military expert at nonprofit research group CNA Corp. It's not Moscow's warfighting ships and submarines that are making NATO and U.S. officials uneasy. It's Russia's Main Directorate of Deep Sea Research, whose specialized surface ships, submarines, underwater drones and mini subs conduct reconnaissance, underwater salvage and other work. One ship run by the directorate is the Yantar. It's a modest, 354-foot oceanographic vessel that holds a crew of about 60. It most recently was off South America's coast helping Argentina search for a lost submarine. Parlamentskaya Gazeta, the Russian parliament's publication, last October said the Yantar has equipment "designed for deep-sea tracking" and "connecting to top-secret communication cables." The publication said that in September 2015, the Yantar was near Kings Bay, Georgia, home to a U.S. submarine base, "collecting information about the equipment on American submarines, including underwater sensors and the unified (U.S. military) information network." Rossiya, a Russian state TV network, has said the Yantar can not only connect to top-secret cables, but could cut them and "jam underwater sensors with a special system." Russia's Defense Ministry did not respond to a request for comment. There is no hard evidence that the ship is engaged in nefarious activity, said Steffan Watkins, an information technology security consultant in Canada tracking the ship. But he wonders what the ship is doing when it's stopped over critical cables or when its Automatic Identification System tracking transponder isn't on. Advertisement Of the Yantar's crew, he said: "I don't think these are the actual guys who are doing any sabotage. I think they're laying the groundwork for future operations."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Members of Congress are wondering, too. Rep. Joe Courtney, a Connecticut Democrat on a House subcommittee on sea power, said of the Russians, "The mere fact that they are clearly tracking the cables and prowling around the cables shows that they are doing something." Democratic Sen. Gary Peters of Michigan, an Armed Services Committee member, said Moscow's goal appears to be to "disrupt the normal channels of communication and create an environment of misinformation and distrust." The Yantar's movements have previously raised eyebrows. On Oct. 18, 2016, a Syrian telecom company ordered emergency maintenance to repair a cable in the Mediterranean that provides internet connectivity to several countries, including Syria, Libya and Lebanon. The Yantar arrived in the area the day before the four-day maintenance began. It left two days before the maintenance ended. It's unknown what work it did while there. Watkins described another episode on Nov. 5, 2016, when a submarine cable linking Persian Gulf nations experienced outages in Iran. Hours later, the Yantar left Oman and headed to an area about 60 miles west of the Iranian port city of Bushehr, where the cable runs ashore. Connectivity was restored just hours before the Yantar arrived on Nov. 9. The boat stayed stationary over the site for several more days. Undersea cables have been targets before. At the beginning of World War I, Britain cut a handful of German underwater communications cables and tapped the rerouted traffic for intelligence. In the Cold War, the U.S. Navy sent American divers deep into the Sea of Okhotsk off the Russian coast to install a device to record Soviet communications, hoping to learn more about the USSR's submarine-launched nuclear capability. More recently, British and American intelligence agencies have eavesdropped on fiber optic cables, according to documents released by Edward Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor. In 2007, Vietnamese authorities confiscated ships carrying miles of fiber optic cable that thieves salvaged from the sea for profit. The heist disrupted service for several months. And in 2013, Egyptian officials arrested three scuba divers off Alexandria for attempting to cut a cable stretching from France to Singapore. Five years on, questions remain about the attack on a cable responsible for about a third of all internet traffic between Egypt and Europe. Despite the relatively few publicly known incidents of sabotage, most outages are due to accidents. Two hundred or so cable-related outages take place each year. Most occur when ship anchors snap cables or commercial fishing equipment snags the lines. Others break during tsunamis, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Advertisement But even accidental cuts can harm U.S. military operations. In 2008 in Iraq, unmanned U.S. surveillance flights nearly screeched to a halt one day at Balad Air Base not because of enemy mortar attacks or dusty winds. An anchor had snagged a cable hundreds of miles away from the base, situated in the "Sunni Triangle" northwest of Baghdad. The severed cable had linked controllers based in the United States with unmanned aircraft flying intelligence, surveillance and recognizance missions for coalition forces in the skies over Iraq, explained Ret. Air Force Col. Dave Lujan of Hampton, Virginia. "Say you're operating a remote-controlled car and all of a sudden you can't control it," said Lujan, who was deputy commander of the 332nd Expeditionary Operations Group at the base when the little-publicized outage lasted for two to three days. "That's a big impact," he said, describing how U.S. pilots had to fly the missions instead. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:27 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  As the NCAA deals with corruption in college basketball and faces questions about sexual assault scandals on campus, the association is finally moving toward reform on far less somber subject that has been every bit as vexing: transfer rules. "How complicated could this be?" NCAA President Mark Emmert said at the Final Four in San Antonio. "It's about students changing schools. And yet I've never seen anything that's quite as intractable a problem as this one because you just can't get agreement." After years of NCAA committees and task forces talking about reforming transfer rules, change is on the horizon. The latest working group expects to have a proposal for NCAA leadership to consider by late April, so real reform could be in place by next school year. The result is likely to limit the power schools and coaches have over if and where a player can transfer, and maybe even eliminate the required redshirt year for some transfers — but not all. In men's college basketball, the number of Division I players who transfer from one four-year school to another has risen from 10 percent in 2010 to about 13 percent in 2016, according to the NCAA. Only soccer had a higher percentage of its athletes transferring between four-year schools among men's sports. At the Final Four this weekend, each team will start at least one player who transferred in. Including players sitting out to comply with NCAA rules, Villanova (one), Kansas (two), Loyola-Chicago (three) and Michigan (three) have a combined nine transfers on their rosters. Advertisement Michigan's three transfers have all taken different paths to Ann Arbor. Charles Matthews started his college career at Kentucky, one of many star recruits in John Calipari's program. After playing sparingly as a freshman, he decided to transfer and landed at Michigan, where he had to sit out his sophomore season to satisfy NCAA rules. It's a called a year in residence. Advertisement "It's not fair, but it is what it is," Matthews said. Duncan Robinson came to Michigan after playing his freshman season at Division III Williams College. "It was huge for me," Robinson said about sitting out a season. "I definitely wouldn't have been able to be impactful if I had played right away. Or as impactful. In terms of if it's fair, that's a whole different conversation. Obviously, there's some contradictions in the world of college basketball. You could go on for hours. But I'm not going to be changing them any time soon." Not all NCAA athletes are required to do a so-called year in residence. In many sports, there is a one-time exception that allows athletes to transfer from one school to another without sitting out. The transfer working group is considering the question of whether to make transfer rules uniform across all sports. That could mean making transfers more restrictive for some athletes. One of the concepts being considered is attaching an academic benchmark to the year in residence that would allow athletes with grade-point averages of 3.0 or better to transfer without sitting out. There was also some discussion about allowing players to transfer after a school has a coaching change. Jaaron Simmons went to Houston out of high school and came off the bench as a freshman. But after the head coach James Dickey and the staff that recruited him was let go, he transferred to Ohio University in the Mid-American Conference. Simmons sat out one season and played two as one of the Bobcats' top players. After graduating from Ohio in 2017 with a year of eligibility remaining, he transferred to Michigan. NCAA rules allow athletes who have graduated to transfer without sitting out.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The graduate transfer rule has been a point of contention among many coaches, especially those at mid-major schools who fear losing key players to higher-profile programs in more prominent conferences — the way Ohio did with Simmons. Creating more opportunities for players to transfer without having to sit out could be devastating to mid-major programs, Loyola coach Porter Moser said. "Can you imagine the Missouri Valley, people look at that league, how good of a league it is, it's just going to be a farm system and they're going to pick. Where does it end?" said Moser, who starts transfers Clayton Custer (Iowa State) and Marques Townes (Fairleigh Dickinson). Malik Newman, the star of Kansas' regional final victory against Duke, transferred to the Jayhawks from Mississippi State. He said sitting out a season after his transfer was beneficial, allowing him to work on his game, learn coach Bill Self's system and get healthy. Advertisement "Besides game day, everything else was good," Newman said. Villanova's Eric Paschall left Fordham from the Atlantic-10 after a coaching change. "The school was supportive," Paschall said. "I know it gets difficult with releases and all that, but if you feel like you should transfer then you should." While nothing is a done deal, one aspect of the transfer rules almost certain to change is athletes will no longer have to ask for permission to be released from a scholarship. Coaches currently can deny that release or grant it with restrictions on where a player can go. While the vast majority of transfers go off smoothly, the permission component can get contentious. And in almost every case, schools and coaches come out looking like villains for trying to dictate where a student can attend school. South Dakota State athletic director Justin Sell leads the current transfer working group, comprised of administrators, coaches and student-athletes. He said the group is scheduled to meet once more in mid-April to finalize a wide-ranging proposal for conferences to consider at spring meetings in May. And hopefully, before everybody goes on summer vacation in July, the NCAA will finally have new transfer rules. One thing is for sure: No matter where this ends, it will leave many unsatisfied. "Can we build consensus around 75 or 80 percent of it and really make a positive difference moving forward," Sell said. "That's the big piece for us. Not worrying so much about do you get it right for every single person that's out there and every situation? I don't think that's very realistic." ___ Follow Ralph D. Russo at www.Twitter.com/ralphDrussoAP ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; college football: https://collegefootball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By DAVID GELLESMARCH 30, 2018
 I didn’t mean to do it. It just sort of happened. But what began with an empty wallet on New Year’s Day has evolved into something akin to a lifestyle change. I’ve gone cashless. For the first three months of the year, I have hardly touched paper money or metal coins. There are no grimy bills folded alongside my driver’s license. No quarters or pennies jangling in my pocket. Instead, I’ve relied almost exclusively on credit cards, Apple Pay, online orders and the occasional generosity of an unsuspecting friend. By essentially renouncing physical currency, I’ve slipped a little further into the future. Already, some technologically advanced nations — South Korea, Sweden — have all but done away with cash. Yet in the United States, I remain an outlier. In a study last year by ING, the vast majority of respondents from the United States said they would never go completely cashless. Advertisement I’m here to encourage my fellow Americans to reconsider. My unintentional experiment began on Jan. 1 as I awoke with a rumpled tuxedo, a mild hangover and no money in my pocket. Advertisement The night before, I had imbibed at various bars, handing out the $60 or so in my wallet as tips to bartenders kind enough to work a holiday. As the first days of January passed, I never bothered to go to an A.T.M. and withdraw a wad of cash. I didn’t need to. Here in New York City, as well as just about everywhere these days, it’s possible to pay for nearly everything with a card or a phone. I paid for my morning coffee using the Starbucks app on my iPhone, picked up lunches with a credit card and ordered-in the occasional dinner using Seamless. One day I went to get some vegetarian tacos at Dos Toros and happily discovered that the fast casual chain was one of those restaurants that have stopped accepting cash altogether. Grocery shopping was similarly easy, our kitchen restocked using a mix of Amazon.com, Fresh Direct and trips to my local market, where I paid with a credit card. And so it went. Before I knew it, February had arrived and my wallet was still empty. I vividly remember the first time I heard someone describe a world without cash. It was 2012, and I was at an event in London, listening to Ajay Banga, the chief executive of Mastercard, extol the virtues of digital currencies and the problems with paper money. Cash, he argued, enabled all sorts of bad behavior. Drug dealers, illicit arms traders, tax evaders and sex traffickers all rely on cash, he said. Make cash obsolete and those nefarious activities get much more difficult. Plus, cash is dirty, a vector for germs and disease. It was a compelling argument, but at the time, my wallet stuffed with colorful plasticy pounds, I thought he was crazy. Old habits die hard, and humans have been using cash, in one form or another, for roughly 7,000 years. Advertisement Plus, forsaking cash can be more difficult for the bankless, many of whom have been through economic crises and are ineligible for credit cards and bank accounts. (Though it’s getting easier,  thanks to the efforts of companies like PayPal.) Yet since that trip to London, Mr. Banga’s words have been rattling around my head, and sure enough, I’ve found myself relying less and less on cash. A big reason for my increasing reliance on digital payments is that if you sign up for the right card and don’t carry a balance, credit cards can be a great deal. Last year, I got the Chase Sapphire Reserve card, which caused a frenzy when it was released. Yes, it costs $450 a year, but it quickly delivered $1,500 worth of travel credits.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then last month, I signed up for the Amazon Prime Rewards card, which gives me 5 percent back on all purchases on Amazon and at Whole Foods, two major cost centers for our household. These aren’t exactly life-changing windfalls, but the benefits accrue over time, something cash can’t offer. To be sure, there have been some downsides along the way. Chief among them: Tipping isn’t easy. As I checked out of a hotel in Charleston, S.C., I didn’t have anything to offer the valet, which made me look — and feel — cheap. The next week I got a haircut. I paid for the trim with my card, but my barber accepted tips only in cash. Again I felt miserly. And when I got an overpriced drink with some New York Times colleagues at the steakhouse below our newsroom, I had to add my tip to the credit card bill, a decidedly less satisfying experience than leaving a few singles on the bar. There were other instances when I missed cash, too. When panhandlers asked me for spare change, I had nothing to offer and felt a pang of guilt. One day, I was late to pick up my toddlers from day care, and the school demanded $50 in cash. Rather than consent, I fought the charge and got away with a warning, but it was a close call. Another time, I took the kids to a carousel only to discover it was cash only. Luckily my cousin was with us and lent me $4, narrowly averting a very public temper tantrum. My wife saved the day more than once, tipping hotel cleaners and paying the occasional babysitter and cleaning lady with cash. And some studies show that using credit cards encourages people to spend more than they otherwise would. Advertisement For the most part, however, I realized I’d be totally fine if cash went the way of the fax machine. Recently, I got back in touch with Mr. Banga of Mastercard, wanting to compare notes. He said that while he didn’t see cash disappearing entirely anytime soon, he — no surprise — had mostly let it go. “I use very little cash in the course of a month,” he said. “Mostly just for tipping.” Like Mr. Banga, I’m not saying I’ll never use cash again. I will give it out to the homeless and tip hardworking service employees. But if the day comes when cash disappears altogether, you won’t hear me complaining. In February, I set out on a trip to Southern California, my wallet still empty. I Ubered to the airport in New York, Ubered to the hotel in Los Angeles and used the usual variety of digital payments to get around, eat and shop. Cash didn’t just seem nonessential; it was practically invisible. Then one night in Ojai, Calif., my own cashless streak came to an end. I was out for dinner with my family and some old friends, and I picked up the bill, putting it on my Sapphire Reserve card. I was planning to treat the table, but before I noticed what was happening, my friend tossed two $20 bills on top of my wallet and said thanks. That was that. I picked up the bills, briefly enjoying their familiar crinkle, and slipped them in my wallet. The next morning, I dropped by a coffee shop in downtown Ojai and ordered a black coffee and blueberry bran muffin. The bill was $7.38. I paid in cash and put $1 in the tip jar. David Gelles is the Corner Office columnist and a business reporter. Follow him on LinkedIn and Twitter: @dgelles. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BU1 of the New York edition with the headline: My Journey Into a Cashless Future.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:50 A.M. E.D.T.
 YINGTAN, China —  Like many Chinese Catholics, Lin Jinqing was shocked when news trickled through to him of an impending deal between Beijing and the Vatican that would end a long dispute over control of the Church in China. As a member of a so-called "underground" church – one that is not sanctioned by Beijing - in the southeastern province of Jiangxi, Lin and fellow parishioners have for years been attending clandestine Bible readings and services. In recent years, as Chinese authorities cracked down on underground services as part of broader restrictions on religious groups, he has also started attending services at state-sanctioned churches in order to avoid trouble. "The pressure on underground church members has been quite big," said Lin, who lives in Yingtan, a gritty city of one million people in southeastern Jiangxi province. Advertisement Now, the deal between China and the Vatican is worrying him. "Many of us don't know what to think," he said. He said that the underground churchgoers wanted more freedom to worship. "But at what cost?" Advertisement A senior Vatican source told Reuters last month that a framework accord was ready and could be signed in months. The expected deal would allow China to appoint bishops, in consultation with the Vatican, and eventually could lead to the restoration of full diplomatic relations between the two sides for the first time in seven decades. Until now, China and the Vatican have not recognized most bishops named by each other. Underground Catholics like Lin have stayed loyal to Vatican-appointed bishops – and the Pope. News of the impending deal has split communities of Catholics across China, according to some critics like Cardinal Joseph Zen in Hong Kong. Some fear greater suppression should the Vatican cede greater control to Beijing, but others want to see rapprochement. "We hope for an early establishment of ties. It will definitely bring advantageous policies, and greater openness to the Church," said Father Pan Yinbao, a priest affiliated with the official Church in Yingtan, in an interview with Reuters. "There is a need for change. There is a need for adjustment." Lin's apprehensions, meanwhile, are echoed in WeChat groups used by Catholics, and the few uncensored religious news sites still viewable in China like www.tianzhujiao.life - as is cautious criticism. "Churchgoers stay hopeful on the Vatican-China deal, but no one wants to live in a bird cage or only fighting for a larger space in the bird cage," read one post by a blogger named Priest Shanren. "People are born to be free." Advertisement The Chinese Communist Party has long sought to control organized groups, including religious ones, whose devotees can only worship under the auspices of state-sanctioned bodies, like the Catholic Patriotic Association. Of the 146 bishops now in China, about a third are affiliated with the underground church. A source close to the Vatican based in Hong Kong said that there would be a tightening of religious freedoms following a restructuring of China's religious affairs authority this year, to bring it directly under party, rather than state control. A Chinese government statement explaining the move said it would help China "steadfastly persevere in the direction of Sinicizing our country's religions". This week, Guo Xijin, a bishop in the southeastern province of Fujian was detained by authorities for refusing to officiate Easter services with an official bishop. Guo, who is reportedly one of two Chinese bishops the Vatican has asked to retire or accept demotion to make way for a Beijing-backed one, couldn't be reached by Reuters for comment. Some critics and Chinese Catholics say rapprochement between Beijing and the Vatican could drive an even deeper wedge between the faithful in China, and engender some bitterness toward the Vatican.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. TORN LOYALTIES AND FACTIONS Those divisions are evident in places like Jiangxi province, where there are factions even within the underground Church. When the province's then 92-year-old Vatican-appointed bishop, Thomas Zeng Jingmu, retired in 2012, one faction, led by a relative, split from another underground faction loyal to the Vatican's appointed successor, Bishop John Peng Weizhao. The faction loyal to Peng, which now has at least six priests leading underground Masses, is likely to remain opposed to any deal and lead to the erosion of the Vatican's authority, according to a source with close ties to underground Catholics in Jiangxi's three dioceses. She said that some devout Catholics across China were prepared to cut ties with the Vatican over a deal. "If they're abandoned by the Vatican they'll pray to God themselves at home," said the source who declined to be named given the sensitivity of the matter. Advertisement "The Vatican has done the calculations and they feel it doesn't matter if they abandon the underground, because they are a relatively small group, and will sooner or later fade away." Peng, who was detained by authorities for six months in 2014, couldn't be reached for comment. Archbishop Paul Gallagher, the Vatican's equivalent of a foreign minister, said at a conference on Chinese Catholicism in Rome, that while the faithful in China had experienced "great suffering" in the past, the country was seeking to regain a central position in the world and so efforts should be made to forge Catholicism with "Chinese forms".      RELIGIOUS SPIN While some dioceses in coastal Fujian and in inland Hebei have large clusters of underground Catholics, Jiangxi's are less influential. Many in the area, including 62-year-old Liu Ande, have switched to the official Church. "We are sons and daughters of God but for our country, we must listen to the leaders here," Liu said after a Sunday Mass at the official Catholic church in Yingtan. The church is a shabby building in need of paint wedged into a residential courtyard with several cracked windows, where 48 mostly elderly Catholics listened to a sermon by Father Pan. After Mass, on the steps of the church, some of the tensions of the impending deal were laid bare. Liu asked Pan to verify if the Vatican had asked another Bishop in southern China besides Guo, to step down. "Is it true? We've heard it's true? It should be true," said Liu. "Everyone is opposed to this." But Pan, the official priest, now dressed in a blue fleece jacket after mass, disputed the standoff. "Whether it's true or not isn't clear," he told Liu, who began nodding. "There's a lot of news on the internet." Advertisement Another worshipper dressed in a pink coat, who would only give her surname as Li, said she would be praying for a better tomorrow. "If you've done bad things, you must then try to do lots of good things," she said. "There shouldn't be tensions," she added. "We are all just trying to save our own souls." (Additional reporting by Anita Li in Shanghai; Philip Pullella in Rome; Greg Torode, Venus Wu and Chermaine Lee in Hong Kong; Editing by Philip McClellan) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by The tracks that caught our critics’ attention this week, from Cardi B, Stephen Malkmus & the Jicks, John Parish with PJ Harvey and more. By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica and Giovanni Russonello Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos — and anything else that strikes them as intriguing. This week, Cardi B blasts a cheater, Stephen Malkmus & the Jicks get riled up and John Parish and PJ Harvey sing a tribute to Mark Linkous. Just want the music? Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes). Like what you hear? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage. Anxiety and resentment drip off “My Dear Melancholy,” a great new EP by the Weeknd announced and released on short notice this week that’s filled with scarred, tart songwriting and dismal moods. Which is to say: vintage Weeknd! Here, he is both savior and judge, sweet singer of cruel sentiments. The beat — produced by Gesaffelstein and Guy-Manuel de Homem-Christo (of Daft Punk) with Cirkut — is stormy and dreamy in equal measure, and the Weeknd is coolly vicious atop it. Throughout this EP, he applies the polished songwriting he’s picked up on his path to pop saturation, but the most gratifying parts are the moments of unvarnished bitterness that can’t be smoothed over. JON CARAMANICA Cheat on Cardi B? Not a good idea. The track combines a tinny, off-the-shelf vamp that could have been marked “Latin” on a 1950s chord organ with a few trap accents, but there’s no mistaking the fury in the song. “My heart is like a package with a fragile label on it,” Cardi B sings, and that makes her bitterness mount in verses that detail how he kept sneaking around while she was faithful, even thinking about marriage. There’s suspicion, disgust, self-doubt, anger and thoughts of karmic retribution — but it’s still not over: “This is not a threat, it’s a warning.” JON PARELES The old indie-rock indifference doesn’t play so well in 2018, and Stephen Malkmus — who perfected the noisy offhand shrug as the leader of Pavement — is unmistakably riled up in “Shiggy,” from an album with the Jicks that’s due in May. The bass is more bruising and the drums are heftier; guitars unite to blare out hooks. And when he sings, “Don’t speak your dumb wisdom/I’m not so easily confused,” it’s not hard to guess his target. J.P. The guitarist Mary Halvorson is basically opposed to things that could spark any easy association or soft comfort. She doesn’t do campfire strums or snaky jazz guitar lines or steadily arcing song structures. And apparently her M.O. as a lyricist is roughly the same: fragmented and semi-opaque, unrhymed, sometimes verging toward language poetry. We know this thanks to “Code Girl,” Ms. Halvorson’s new album, named for the quintet she recently assembled with Amirtha Kidambi on vocals, Ambrose Akinmusire on trumpet, Michael Formanek on bass and Tomas Fujiwara on drums. Case in point: Is “In the Second Before” a love song? A loneliness song? A defiant dance? After a low, rustling intro, the group finds itself in a lovely flow, and Ms. Kidambi intones: “His voice comes/out of the sound/of the million people/we are known/to discard.” But that gentle sway is fleeting: The track ends in a cloud of Ms. Halvorson’s electric scuzz. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO The sound and imagery of gospel infuse this enigmatic song, an anticipatory elegy that’s the B-side to a more combative new single, “I Owe You Nothing,” by the Swedish songwriter Seinabo Sey. “You say you want to be remembered,” Ms. Sey begins, singing completely alone; a choir, slow organ chords and eventually the deep rasp of Jacob Banks are all that join her through the first half of the song, which vows, “When the trumpets call/you can send me to the Lord.” Finally, drums and orchestral strings arrive for a rousing march that’s also a plea: “Remember me.” J.P. All the attention given to the wink tossed at Timothée Chalamet on “OKRA” obscures something far more important: This is one of Tyler, the Creator’s sharpest songs in years, full of urgently mumbled and funny lyrics — “$30,000 just for luggage, financial adviser buggin’” — over a beat that’s a low, slimy, persistent groan. J.C. “The sun never felt colder,” PJ Harvey sings in “Sorry for Your Loss,” which is dedicated to the songwriter Mark Linkous of Sparklehorse, who committed suicide in 2010. He had worked with both the songwriter-producer John Parish and Ms. Harvey. The music echoes Sparklehorse, setting a Celtic-modal banjo against a looming, distorted electric guitar; the song captures the eerie persistence of grief. “The window rattled and I wondered if you’d just passed over.” J.P. Phum Viphurit is a young Thai singer raised largely in New Zealand with an unpretentious style: a mild Bublé croon over Mraz-esque guitar breeze. “Lover Boy” is his best song to date — he leans hard into the syllables, making them sound sticky, but keeps his flirtation light. J.C. “Kolorblind,” the new album by DJ Esco — Future’s D.J. — is, from some angles, a backdoor Future album, and a welcome one, more breathable than his own recent full-length releases. Out of several strong songs here, this one has sinuous charm and a chipper 1980s back-and-forth lightness. J.C. Vortex is a Swiss quartet whose music tends toward a percussive, guitar-driven minimalism, not ambience. But on “Vortex,” the group’s fourth full-length, the guitarist David Torn joins as special guest and spirit guide, and he changes things. A frequent composer of film scores, he’s a fan of atmosphere and accrual. The single, sustained note is his friend; so is the loop pedal. At the beginning of “Red Shift,” a stubborn, puddly bass opens up a wide bed, and a throng of guitars begins to bite and snipe over top. But here comes Mr. Torn, crafting a big, luminescent haze above it all. Five and a half minutes in, the track strips down nearly to silence: The troops are in retreat, provisioning for another salvo. Then the build starts again, more urgent than before. By the end we’re beyond gravity. G.R. Jon Pareles has been The Times's chief pop music critic since 1988. A musician, he has played in rock bands, jazz groups and classical ensembles. He majored in music at Yale University.  @JonPareles Jon Caramanica is a pop music critic for The Times and the host of the Popcast. He also writes the men's Critical Shopper column for Styles. He previously worked for Vibe magazine, and has written for the Village Voice, Spin, XXL and more.  @joncaramanica Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By MICHAEL HOINSKIMARCH 30, 2018
 AUSTIN, TEXAS — Lawrence Wright, the author and longtime New Yorker staff writer, is not as serious as he may seem. He is not obsessed with terrorism and religion, as his recent work suggests. Sometimes he just wants a juicy sex scandal. Indeed, before he wrote “The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11,” winner of the 2007 Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction, and before he wrote “Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, & the Prison of Belief,” a 2013 National Book Award finalist, Mr. Wright was working on “Cleo,” a play about the sordid love affair between Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton during the filming of the 1963 epic “Cleopatra.” Mr. Wright began writing “Cleo” as a screenplay about 20 years ago, but it was derailed by 9/11. On April 6, “Cleo” will finally debut onstage, when the Alley Theater, in Houston, hosts the theatrical world premiere. The production, directed by Bob Balaban, the theater and screen actor, shall sate one of Mr. Wright’s earliest desires. “The Taylor and Burton affair coincided with my puberty so I was especially attuned to what was going on,” Mr. Wright said. “This relationship — the passion and the lust just spilled out all over the world. It certainly awakened my attention.” Advertisement Last August, Mr. Wright sat at the desk in his home office in West Austin. On a computer monitor was a document opened to draft No. 78 of “Cleo.” He was preparing for the play’s September debut. Then Hurricane Harvey hit Houston in late August and damaged the Alley, prompting the delay. In those seven months, Mr. Wright wrote nine more drafts, all while serving as an executive producer for the new Hulu series based on “The Looming Tower” and completing a new book on Texas politics. “Cleo” is now a drastically different play than it was when Mr. Wright conceived it, yet the theme remains the same. “It’s in some ways a disquisition on love, and how dangerous it is, and yet how essential,” Mr. Wright said. “We’re condemned to have this riotous, unsettling element in our natures and we don’t understand it.” Advertisement Initially, Mr. Wright had focused on the affair between Joseph Mankiewicz, the movie’s director and co-writer, and Rosemary Matthews, the script supervisor. He was intrigued with the intertwined destructive relationships at play on the set: from Antony and Cleopatra, whose relationship shook empires; to Burton and Taylor, whose relationship ripped apart their marriages and ignited the gossip pages; to that more prosaic boss-subordinate romance. Change came when Mr. Balaban got involved about seven years ago. He had met Taylor a few times through the actress Maureen Stapleton, and persuaded Mr. Wright to redirect the emphasis to her and Burton, the obvious stars of the show. The script still does feature Mankiewicz, an Oscar-winning filmmaker who became overwhelmed with the enormity of the movie, a budget-buster that threatened to bankrupt Fox. Also in supporting roles: Eddie Fisher, the singer and actor who was Taylor’s husband — her fourth — at the time, and Rex Harrison, the actor playing Caesar, whose ego took a toll as his role diminished in the growing shadow of Burton’s Mark Antony. The actors Lisa Birnbaum and Richard Short portray Taylor and Burton. They were cast, Mr. Balaban said, for their ability to embody both tragedy and comedy, and because they resembled their characters without ever appearing to do impressions of them. The play starts with Burton arriving drunk to the set, in Rome, to replace the actor Stephen Boyd, who was no longer available after production delays. The idea of using Burton came from Fisher, who unwittingly invited a snake into his own den, according to Mr. Wright. Burton and Taylor couldn’t keep their cravings secret and the nascent paparazzi captured every blatant minute of their sunbathing and petting. “There was outrage,” Mr. Wright said. “Nobody had ever seen this kind of thing happening in public before. The tabloids were full of ‘homewrecker.’ ” The pope condemned the couple, and a congresswoman from Georgia proposed prohibiting Taylor, a naturalized U.S. citizen, from returning  after filming. Fidelity was a tightly held American value, yet the pair persisted in flagrant defiance and, in Mr. Wright’s estimation, helped to spark the sexual revolution. Advertisement “The Richard Burton Diaries,” published in 2012, was crucial to understanding not only the dynamic between Burton and Taylor but also Burton’s light and dark sides. Mr. Wright’s research also included interviewing sources close to the movie.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “The play ends with a rather brutal scene — a big, knock-down, drag-out fight that you would think would tear Taylor and Burton apart but is actually what ends up cementing their relationship,” Mr. Balaban said. “We wanted to present something that was probably like what really happened with them.” A 2016 reading of “Cleo” that was part of the Alley’s festival of new works inspired Gregory Boyd, the former artistic director, to stage a production. Mr. Wright is not, however, new to theater. In his career, he has written four plays that have been produced (“Camp David,” “Fallaci,” “Sonny’s Last Shot” and “Crackerjack”) and performed in two of his own one-man shows, “The Human Scale” and “My Trip to Al-Qaeda.” “I’ve written movies, but typically with a movie, as soon as the director comes on, the last thing he wants is the writer around,” Mr. Wright said. “So you get kind of pushed out. In the theater, the playwright is the final authority, and I don’t mind that.” On April 17, he will publish “God Save Texas: A Journey Into the Soul of the Lone Star State,” based on reporting he did for an article in The New Yorker. David Remnick, the magazine’s editor, asked Mr. Wright to explain his home state; the writer playfully reminded the editor that he gets paid by the word. Mr. Remnick was willing to take the risk. “The secret to Larry is that he writes only about what completely grabs his attention and imagination,” Mr. Remnick said. “Nothing obligatory, nothing on order. He does what he’s going to do. And the results are invariably amazing.” A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page AR7 of the New York edition with the headline: Lustful Off-Set Romance to Onstage Drama.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
As a teenager, he was an elite violinist, a rare talent. Then, something happened. Fifty years later, he has found a refuge in a City Island boatyard. By ALEX VADUKULMARCH 30, 2018
 As the sun set and the tide started to rise around City Island, the seaside village off the eastern tip of the Bronx, Saul Chandler took his seat at a bar called the Snug. Mr. Chandler, 70, a small man who smokes cheap cigars and refuses Budweiser not in glass bottles, is one of the island’s waterfront eccentrics. He is a bar-stool fixture at the pub, known for telling bawdy jokes and paying the tabs of strangers before slipping into the night. He likes rambling about his boat, a two-masted schooner docked nearby. The shipyard was lonesome throughout winter, but he was usually in the hull of the schooner drinking beer and sawing wood by lamplight, classical music echoing from a radio in his cabin. He mostly tells stories: how he glued himself to a boat he was repairing and had to rip himself free and wander off in his underpants, how he nearly sank in the Bermuda Triangle, how he has named vessels after the Herman Melville novels “Typee” and “Omoo.” After a few beers, however, Mr. Chandler might tell a story that is not of the cheerful maritime sort: “I played Carnegie Hall twice before I was 13.” “I was known for my Bach.” “They turned me into a trained monkey.” “If I could forget about music I would.” When asked to say more, he shrugs, and the stories fade into the barroom haze. But this mysterious specter follows him to his boat. When music is playing on the radio, if a certain violin concerto comes on, he may get up and switch the station off. “The violin upsets me,” he said. “It reminds me of terror.” Advertisement Specifically, it reminds him of his gift. A gift he has spent his life trying to forget. In the 1960s, Mr. Chandler was one of the most promising classical violin prodigies in New York. He started attending the Juilliard School of Music’s prestigious preparatory division when he was 9, he played at Town Hall and Carnegie Hall before he was 11, and he performed Mozart live on WNYC when he was 13. His pedigree was of the highest order: he was a student of Ivan Galamian, the legendary Armenian violin teacher who taught future superstars of classical music like Michael Rabin and Itzhak Perlman. Mr. Chandler’s greatest triumph, he claims, was once getting a better grade than a teenage Itzhak Perlman at Juilliard. “No one could beat him,” he said, dragging on his cigar. “Not until me.” But when Mr. Chandler turned 16, the pressures of producing excellence consumed him, and he had a nervous breakdown that derailed his career. He estranged himself from classical music and in an act of reinvention legally changed his name. He would lead a circuitous life that has since involved running a seedy hotel in Times Square, a successful career in mathematics and dramatic voyages at sea. Thirty years ago he started building boats on City Island, where he found peace on its waters. “I don’t want to be remembered for who I was,” he said. “Because I ended up doing a lot of other great things in my life, too. People here know me for who I am now.” Mr. Chandler’s story is also part of a certain New York myth: that of the fallen wonder child. For every Itzhak Perlman or Midori who rises to stardom from the hothouse environments of the city’s performing arts schools, there are surely hundreds of talents that flare out. Ann Hulbert, the author of “Off the Charts: The Hidden Lives and Lessons of American Child Prodigies,” offered a reason for our enduring interest in this tragic narrative. “We are fascinated by the dark turns because we get satisfaction,” she said. “There becomes a grim moral: If you are exceptional, you’re bound for trouble.” On his boat recently, Mr. Chandler discussed his brush with classical music greatness, finishing half a pack of smokes over three hours. He was a reluctant subject who initially saw little reason to revisit his past and repeatedly declined to be interviewed until, after I paid him several visits on City Island over the winter, he ran out of objections. “Most of the people involved are dead.” “My biggest regret in life is that I let lots of people down,” he said. “They worked hard. But they worked hard to turn me into a trained monkey. Anyone can become a monkey. Even a chimpanzee can become a concert violinist.” Advertisement Saul Robert Lipshutz, as his parents named him, was born in Brooklyn in 1947, and grew up in Paterson, N.J. His mother was an Austrian war bride and his father was a noted mathematician. His musical life started when he was 6 after his grandfather suggested he learn the violin. Mr. Chandler discovered a natural connection to the instrument, and Juilliard accepted him in 1957 when he was 9. “I was already good,” he said. “Then I got better. Really fast.” At the school, then on West 122nd Street, he became a student of Margaret Pardee, who was one of three assistants to the legendary string pedagogue and the head of Juilliard’s violin department, Ivan Galamian. After this point, the violin ceased to be a mere hobby for Mr. Chandler. Mr. Galamian, who died in 1981, had a towering reputation, and is frequently described as the greatest violin teacher of the 20th century. Laconic, with a low voice and a thick Russian accent, he might end lessons by saying: “That was better. But it was not good.” “Everyone treated him like he was a God,” said Mr. Chandler. “But he was an idiot. I never heard him play anything. Who was he? I hated him more than anybody.” He had fonder memories of Ms. Pardee, who was from Valdosta, Ga., and called students “Honey.” “She died not long ago,” he said. “I saw it on the internet.” I asked if he ever thought about her. “I try not to think about Margaret Pardee,” he said. “Because I think I might have broken her heart.” His training became militaristic under their supervision. “It was terror,” he said. “A master class in terror. There was nothing worse. Many of us were not sane.” Nonetheless, Mr. Chandler was soon following in the footsteps of prodigies like Mozart and Paganini. He performed at Town Hall and took the stage at Carnegie Hall; he traveled around Europe playing a Haydn concerto. “They loved me in Yugoslavia,” he said. Reached by phone, former Juilliard classmates still vividly recalled Mr. Chandler’s talent 50 years later. “Saul had a real gift,” said Fred Sherry, 69, a cellist. “I don’t think he knew how gifted he really was.” Richard Sortomme, a composer, said: “Saul was very mystical in the way he interpreted music. He went somewhere else when he played. He was a poet.” Daniel Reed, who became a violinist for the New York Philharmonic, even recalled a specific performance: “I still remember him practicing the first movement of Lalo’s ‘Symphonie Espagnole.’ It wasn’t so much what he played but how he played it.” Although Mr. Chandler does not recall the past as fondly, there is one incident he will boast about readily. At the peak of his talents, he claims, he earned better marks than Itzhak Perlman at a jury evaluation at Juilliard in the early 1960s. “Perlman was a freak,” he said. “His hands were twice as big as mine. No one could beat him.” Then Mr. Chandler grinned. “Well, except for once.” As Mr. Chandler tells it, Ms. Pardee took him to a recital hall where Mr. Galamian and a host of classical music figures were seated. His voice boomed through the hall. “What will he play?” asked Mr. Galamian. “He will play the Chausson,” said Ms. Pardee. “No. I’ve already heard him play that.” Advertisement “Then he will play the E major Partita, by Bach.” Mr. Chandler was left alone with the jury. The partita is a hypnotic piece filled with dramatic cascading passages. He raised the violin to his chin and released his bow. When he broke from his trance 15 minutes later, he said, everyone was staring at him. “It was perfect,” Mr. Chandler said. “It was beautiful. It was slow. Galamian didn’t look like he knew what was going on. He started talking to me in that Russian accent. I couldn’t understand a thing he said.” Mr. Chandler was awarded the top grade of an “E” (Exceptional), he said, while Mr. Perlman received the lesser grade of an “S” (Superior) for the same recital. “I don’t even know if Perlman is still alive,” he added. Mr. Perlman, who is alive, said through a representative: “I don’t remember Mr. Lipshutz and I also don’t recall my jury grades from 50 years ago. I want to wish him well.” By 1964, a promising future seemingly awaited Mr. Chandler at a world-class orchestra. He was 16, newspapers had chronicled his talents and he accepted an invitation that awaited only Mr. Galamian’s most gifted students: to study with him at the renowned Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. But within months, Mr. Chandler would be living with his parents in New Jersey, seeing a psychologist and vowing never to touch the violin again. Mr. Chandler still dislikes discussing how he abandoned the violin, and the degree to which he opens up about it depends on his mood. “That’s when I found out what I was,” he said one night on his boat. “It was a nervous breakdown. I unraveled.” His most direct explanation of the crisis is that he felt robbed of time. “I didn’t see myself,” he said. “Childhood was lost. Time was lost. Then one day I finally saw myself and I thought: ‘That’s it. There has to be more.’ But I lost everything realizing that.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “So many of us had talent, then we just disappeared,” he continued. “They never see who they are. They don’t know what they are. It’s the same reason child actors never grow up. We never see ourselves.” Ms. Hulbert, the author of “Off the Charts,” called Mr. Chandler’s turning point a “kind of midlife crisis.” “A gift that once nurtured them suddenly becomes a big struggle,” she said. “Their crisis comes down to autonomy: What am I?” Mr. Sortomme, his former Juilliard classmate, was not entirely surprised to hear of the turmoil. “I remember feeling there was not a lot of joy in Saul’s life,” he said. But he dismissed notions of Mr. Chandler as some fallen child wonder. “Saul is better off having stopped playing the violin to save his life instead of just keep going to give the world one more great violinist,” he said. When Mr. Chandler was recuperating back at home, Ms. Pardee and Mr. Galamian pleaded with his parents: What can we do? What can we tell the school? Does Saul want to play something else? Mr. Chandler passed along his reply: “Tell them I never want to be on a stage again.” He put away his instrument and commenced his reinvention. First he became a truck driver, and then he went to New Orleans. “I lost my virginity there,” he said. “I think.” Advertisement He changed his name in 1969 from Lipshutz to Chandler. “I had to disappear,” he said. “I had to begin my metamorphosis.” He got a job around this time running a dodgy hotel in Times Square. “I knew all the hookers, and they knew me,” he said. He also started studying mathematics at New York University, where he found he was gifted with numbers. He would become a successful actuary, calculating risk for organizations like the American Cancer Society. As he chased lost time, his passion for the sea was growing. His father had read him books about sailing as a child, and on days off from violin practice they built boats together. Actuarial mathematics didn’t necessarily thrill him, but the work let him finance his hobby, and he was sailing and building boats seriously by his 30s. “It was my therapy,” he said. He got married in 1983, moved to Washington Heights and had two children. He started keeping boats on City Island in the mid-1980s, and he said he has since crossed the Atlantic and sailed from the Bronx to Trinidad a dozen times. After retiring in 2002, he began commuting from his apartment to City Island practically daily. “The only thing that has ever truly been constant for me in my life is boats,” he said. “When I build a boat, at least I can make it better. I can fix it.” I visited Mr. Chandler one winter night on his schooner, which is named Seraph and is dry-docked at Barron’s Marine. The boatyard was cold and ghostly. In his cabin, as the space heater rattled, he handed me a Budweiser. While he told me about recent repairs, I noticed a dusty CD case beside his radio. Classical discs were inside. I asked if we could put something on. “Put on the Puccini,” he said. The dramatic opening of the opera “Tosca” was soon booming through the boatyard from his little lamplit boat. “You fall in love with the voice when you get older,” he said. “Because you realize the human voice is all that matters.” I flipped through more CDs and noticed some violin recordings. Hesitantly, I asked to play one. “Do I have the Brahms sonatas?” he said. “You can put that on.” An elegant melody swelled from the speakers. He stood upright. “These are the most beautiful sonatas ever written,” he said. “He’s not playing the violin. The violin is playing him.” Mr. Chandler closed his eyes and drank more. “Nobody wrote music,” he said. “They heard something. Except Mozart. He wrote the same thing over and over.” Bach was next. A dramatic crescendo played. “Stop,” he said. “This is amazing. Can you turn this up?” He swigged his beer. “Can you imagine being on this boat?” he said feverishly. “Out in the middle of the ocean? Millions of miles from anything? Listening to this?” A few weeks later, he agreed to show me his violin, and we met at his apartment in Washington Heights, where he lives with his wife, Sula. The library was filled with books about sailing and Herman Melville novels. Advertisement The Chandlers raised their family in the neighborhood, and while music was around, his children grew up without having to practice an instrument for six hours a day. Mr. Chandler’s adult son, Fred, said his father’s musical past was never discussed when he was a boy. “Only thing I really remember is we had to play an instrument in grade school and I got the violin,” he said. “Right away, I got the sense he was uncomfortable with me playing it. He never tried to teach me. He went away while I was practicing. Except once in a blue moon, if he had been drinking, he might play a few minutes, and it was evident he was a real master.” Mr. Chandler went and fetched a bag of old newspaper clippings. “My mother kept these,” he said. Then he retrieved a dusty case. “I haven’t opened this in 50 years,” he said. “I’m scared to see what’s inside.” Mr. Chandler opened the case and a musky odor emerged. Inside was a dark red violin. Blue cursive ink on its interior indicated it was built by a Parisian luthier named Joseph Bassot in 1802. He dragged on a cigar as he considered the instrument in his hands. “Seeing this makes me think I made the right choice with my life,” he said. “I lived my life. Not the life of this violin.” Then he started putting it away. “I hate this thing,” he said. “I don’t want to see it anymore.” He opened a beer and seemed happy to talk about anything other than music. But the violin’s quiet presence would not be denied. Eventually, he put down his beer and approached the case. “Doubt I can even play this thing anymore,” he grumbled, slowly tuning the instrument. Then he placed it to his chin and released his bow. A warm, glorious tone rose through the apartment. Then he bowed again, violently sliding his hand up the violin’s neck, and a graceful, thunderous sound filled the room. Then the note faded away. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page MB1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Prodigy Redeemed.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOMARCH 30, 2018
 Welcome to “The Month in Live Jazz,” a column highlighting five standout performances from the past month on stages across New York City. MILES OKAZAKI Jazz Gallery, March 16 The guitarist Miles Okazaki paused midway through the late set at the Jazz Gallery to offer a note of gratitude. The material he was playing — all from “Trickster,” his standout 2017 album — had first taken shape at this space two years earlier. Throughout his performance, the music made it clear that the room continues to be a fertile ground for Mr. Okazaki and his partners. He was joined by the rhythm section from “Trickster” — Anthony Tidd on bass and Sean Rickman on drums — as well as Matt Mitchell on piano. All four musicians have come through the tutelage of the alto saxophonist and rhythmic experimentalist Steve Coleman, and Mr. Okazaki’s tunes offer their own inquiries into and around Mr. Coleman’s strategies. Slippery cadences blend funk with ideas from around the globe; flashes of conspicuous historical memory meet a tenacious futurism. Mr. Okazaki’s set featured five tunes from the album. He began many of them with halting, staccato phrases on the guitar’s bottom three strings, engaging Mr. Tidd in a bubbling repartee before the entire band was eventually pulled into the tangled flow. Mr. Okazaki rarely plays chords; his linear style has a fleetness reminiscent of Pat Martino and a rough, chunky picking style not unlike that of Grant Green. But over the unflexed, tumbling grooves of his rhythm section, such as in the set-closing “Caduceus,” his playing felt like something utterly contemporary, free from the expectations of what it means to play a guitar in a group setting — not just in jazz, but any kind. Advertisement Miles Okazaki’s latest album, “Trickster,” was released last year on Pi Recordings. RAVI COLTRANE TRIO WITH TOMOKI SANDERS Jazz Standard, March 28 The saxophonist Ravi Coltrane has spent much of his career standing apart from the heavy legacy of his father, John Coltrane, who died when he was not yet 2 years old. Of late, the younger Mr. Coltrane has turned much of his attention toward his mother, the pianist and harpist Alice Coltrane, whose influence is less ubiquitous in jazz. Advertisement But at Jazz Standard on Wednesday, there was no way to avoid thinking about paternal inheritance. Performing with a trio, Mr. Coltrane welcomed a special guest, Tomoki Sanders, a fellow tenor saxophonist and the son of Pharoah Sanders, who performed with John Coltrane in his final years and carried the spiritual-jazz mantle after Coltrane’s 1967 death. Clearly, the risk of a disappointing gimmick would seem to be running high. But Mr. Coltrane is allergic to glib gestures, and it quickly became clear that Tomoki Sanders was there for the right reasons. At 23, Mr. Sanders cannot even be called a new face on the New York scene yet: He spent his teenage years living in Tokyo and is currently finishing his degree at the Berklee College of Music in Boston. But you’ll be hearing from him soon. There are few saxophonists in jazz today as silvery and deft as Ravi Coltrane, who blew a handful of melted-ore solos throughout the evening, bending in all sorts of directions without slurring the notes themselves. But Mr. Sanders kept up with him handsomely. He played some keen, beboppish solos of his own, always keeping track of the pocket and never losing his command. Unsurprisingly, Mr. Coltrane had the snugger rapport with his rhythm section — Dezron Douglas on bass and Allan Mednard on drums — but Mr. Sanders was keyed in and constantly listening. On the opening of “Fifth House,” just seconds into the performance, he and Mr. Coltrane came together to play a drone, melding comfortably. When the tune neared its end, the two saxophonists threw out little, charmlike notes and dashes. Mr. Sanders was quick and light of touch, finding the spaces between Mr. Coltrane’s tones. Ultimately the two horns became locked in an unlikely harmony, just one note apart, embracing the fertile space between them. Mr. Coltrane’s trio plays at Jazz Standard through Sunday, without Mr. Sanders. OMER AVITAL AND QANTAR Bar Lunático, March 12 The bassist Omer Avital makes big-boned, ebullient, swinging music with a spine that’s equal parts 1950s Blue Note records and timeless Middle Eastern modes. He manages to play small-group jazz in a way that’s bracing and direct enough to sound fresh and engaging, but has no interest in self-conscious postmodernity. His combinations feel naturally unified, not like a synthesis. Just as important, he puts joy and abandon out front; his authorship is affirmed moment to moment over the course of a performance, rather than through the building of a conceptual identity. Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mr. Avital’s past albums (almost all of them winners) have had names like “Think With Your Heart” and “The Ancient Art of Giving,” and that spirit is contagious. Onstage at Bar Lunático in Brooklyn, performing with a new quartet called Qantar, a smile tended to reign over his entire face as he pushed his band mates into a variety of propulsive patterns. He was born in Israel to parents of Moroccan and Yemeni descent, and his songwriting often balances desert languor with cosmopolitan urgency. Advertisement On “Just Like the River Flows,” he started with a dark bass solo, then moved into a sauntering, minor-key shimmy. A few songs later, on the dashing “Know What I Mean,” the tenor saxophonist Asaf Yuria took a swift, skittering solo; then the pianist Eden Ladin took over, cooling and remolding things by way of unexpected harmonic interjections, never letting up on the fast tempo. By the time Mr. Ladin crescendoed, he was moving on many levels at once, free of friction but in touch with a vast history. Omer Avital’s new album, “Qantar,” will come out on April 15. DIVA JAZZ ORCHESTRA Dizzy’s Club Coca-Cola, March 29 Ingrid Jensen is now one of jazz’s most reputed trumpeters, but a quarter century ago she was a young musician just getting her bearings in the newly formed DIVA Jazz Orchestra. That group’s leader, the drummer Sherrie Maricle, has kept it together over the years by holding on to some longtime members while welcoming a steady stream of young talents when those like Ms. Jensen move on to other things. As female instrumentalists have increasingly claimed space in jazz’s male-centric spotlight, DIVA has served as a proving ground for some of the music’s rising voices. Ms. Jensen is a testament to that. She has a distinctive, hazel-hued tone and a restless improviser’s style, in contact with the influence of Freddie Hubbard but less inclined to clean landings. On Thursday, in the first set of DIVA’s four-night run at Dizzy’s, she joined the orchestra as a special guest. (This weekend’s shows are a celebration of the group’s 25th anniversary, and the release of its new album.) There are few jazz orchestras with a tighter machinery or a more sweeping repertory of original music. The set began with “East Coast Andy,” a shuffling composition by the baritone saxophonist Leigh Pilzer, with a Count Basie bone structure and a Bob Brookmeyer musculature. That was followed by “Middle Ground,” a folklike lament by the tenor saxophonist and clarinetist Janelle Reichman, and a medley of tunes by Noriko Ueda, the bassist. The set closed with “The Rhythm Changes,” a blues extension written by Ms. Maricle, with the trombones, trumpets and saxophones unified in a full-throated declaration. The DIVA Jazz Orchestra plays at Dizzy’s through Sunday. JONATHAN FINLAYSON SEXTET The Stone, March 3 Jonathan Finlayson stood onstage at the Stone’s new home in a theater at the New School, almost ready to start his set. His body was angled halfway toward his band mates, his trumpet held at his side. He muttered a few words to his rhythm section, the bassist John Hébert and the drummer Craig Weinrib, and hesitated. Advertisement A little voice shot up from the back row: “I’m waiting!” It was Mr. Hébert’s toddler son, who in all fairness had been exercising extreme patience for about 30 whole seconds. Mr. Finlayson smiled, put the horn to his lips, and got going with the set’s first song, “Tap Tap.” But that didn’t solve the problem entirely. Mr. Finlayson’s music is all about waiting: for pieces to fit into place, for a melody to gain lift, for the ship to dock. That’s by design, and it creates a constant feed of generative precarity. Mr. Finlayson was introducing a new sextet, which headed into the studio soon after this show to record an album. On “Tap Tap,” he and the pianist Matt Mitchell gave chase to the chord changes, baiting them and tackling them, while the tenor saxophonist Brian Settles played fewer notes, seeming to live inside the harmonies as they moved. Steve Lehman, on alto saxophone, was a picture of total command — rhythmically goading the rest of the band and pulling the drummer Craig Weinrib into a bodily exchange. The combination of openness and complexity in this music spells a certain kind of possibility: Mr. Mitchell took a solo that was almost entirely eighth notes, with nearly no rests, and still seemed to create rhythmic suspense at every turn. Jonathan Finlayson’s most recent album, “Moving Still,” was a New York Times best album of 2016.  An earlier version of this review misspelled the surname of the DIVA Jazz Orchestra’s bandleader. She is Sherrie Maricle, not Miracle. The review also incorrectly described Noriko Ueda’s role in the band; she is the bassist, not the pianist. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page C6 of the New York edition with the headline: Playing Tricks and Keeping the Beat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
New York Today  By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
MARCH 30, 2018
 Updated, 1:35 p.m. Boker Tov leKulam. (Good morning everyone.) Passover begins tonight, and if you’re picking up supplies for your Seder, we thought you should know: There is such a thing as matzo hierarchy. “The top is handmade shmurah matzo, then there is machine-made shmurah matzo, and after that is regular machine-made matzo,” according to Rabbi Motti Seligson, a spokesman for Chabad-Lubavitch. (There’s room for debate; ask tonight’s Seder guests their matzo preferences or the best way to eat it, and you’ll be there until Easter Sunday.) Passover commemorates Jewish liberation from slavery in Egypt, and matzo represents a sliver of that Exodus — the Jews fled so quickly, the Torah tells us, that there was no time for their bread to rise. For that reason, observers refrain from eating bread (and other leavened goods, chametz) during the holiday. Advertisement Hence, matzo. But what separates shmurah — which the rabbi called “the Bentley of matzo” — from other popular options, like Streit’s, the purveyor that not long ago closed its longstanding flagship on the Lower East Side, is that shmurah matzo is rabbinically supervised at every step, from farmer to field to factory. Advertisement (Shmurah means “watched” or “guarded.” To uphold Passover traditions and kosher law, rabbis will inspect the produce, ensuring that the matured wheat has not come in contact with water and that no natural fermentation has occurred.) At a time when people care increasingly about how their food is sourced — Is it “natural”? Is it organic? Is it fraudulent? — this closely scrutinized class of matzo is seeing a resurgence in New York, Rabbi Seligson said. It first became popular in New York in the 1950s, he explained, when the rebbe of the Lubavitcher group of Hasidic Jews, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, one of the most influential Jewish leaders of the 20th century, whose following was rooted in Crown Heights, launched a campaign encouraging residents, congregations and bakeries — in Brooklyn and around the world — to offer shmurah matzo. Decades later, the tradition long cherished by Orthodox communities is gaining traction with less religious, more secular groups, Rabbi Seligson said. Case in point: The Obama Seder, the first presidential Seder, reportedly had shmurah matzo. Here’s what else is happening: Where Friday is lacking, the weekend weather will pick up the slack. We may have rain today, but we’ll have a sunny Seder on Saturday and a clear Easter on Sunday. Temperatures should stay in the 50s, so get ready to swap in that leather jacket you’ve been itching to show off. • Joseph P. Ganim went from being the mayor of Bridgeport, Conn., to a convict in prison, then back to mayor. Now, he’s aiming for the governor’s office. [New York Times] • A federal judge allowed a lawsuit to preserve the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, to continue, citing President Trump’s “overtly bigoted statements.” [New York Times] Advertisement • Scott Stringer, the city comptroller, is making a rumble in the 2021 mayoral election through two big endorsements. [New York Times] • How can Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo open the door for more donations? By rewriting the disclaimer language on his website that describes who can donate. [New York Times] • Word spread that the restaurant El Quijote, long regarded as a hidden gem, will be closing its doors for renovations. Crowds gathered for their last meal. [New York Times] • The city’s commissioner of child welfare is trying to improve operations, and, in turn, repair the image of the troubled agency. [New York Times] • A psychiatrist that testified at the trial of the nanny who killed two children in her care believes that the nanny was unaware of the brutal action she was committing. [New York Times] • Rusty Staub, one of the most durable hitters of his time and a former Met, died at 73. [New York Times] • If you want to feel like a spy, there is an espionage museum in Manhattan that could give you the experience. [New York Times] Advertisement • An attorney in Queens is being charged with asylum fraud and making false statements on applications for clients. [Sunnyside Post] • The state’s Department of Transportation wants to develop a highway ramp between Hunts Point and the Bronx River. Residents of the South Bronx neighborhood are calling for the governor to step in. [Streetsblog NYC] • Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Out of the Storm.” • For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing. •  School’s out! Nature Week, eight days of family-friendly activities exploring the environment and life sciences, begins at the Brooklyn Children’s Museum. Times vary. [$11] • The New York International Auto Show continues at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan, through April 8. 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. [Ticket prices vary] • Kreuther Handcrafted Chocolate hosts an Easter egg hunt — for eggs filled with chocolate prizes — in and around Manhattan’s Bryant Park. Noon, through Saturday. [Free] • “On Black Performance: When There Is No Other Ontology than the Stage, Staging and Being Staged,” a discussion on performance art, at the School of Visual Arts in Chelsea. 7 p.m. [Free]  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • “Melania: The Music, The Mem’ries, The Magic,” a singalong comedy show about the first lady, at the Peoples Improv Theater in Flatiron. 9 p.m. [$10] • Islanders host Maple Leafs, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers host Lightning, 7 p.m. (MSG). Yankees at Blue Jays, 7:07 p.m. Advertisement • Watch “The New York Times Close Up,” featuring The Times’s Op-Ed columnist Nicholas Kristof and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV. • Alternate-side parking is suspended. • Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings. Saturday • Easter egg hunts on Staten Island and in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens. Times and prices vary. • A papermaking workshop, using confetti gathered from the Lunar New Year firecracker ceremonies, at the Museum of Chinese in America in Chinatown. 1 p.m. [$12; sign up here] • The Metropolitan Opera’s production of Mozart’s “Così Fan Tutte,” set in 1950s Coney Island, continues at Lincoln Center on the Upper West Side. 1 p.m. [Tickets start at $130] • “Harbortown,” an evening of songs about Staten Island by the musician Bob Wright and others, at Guyon Tavern in Historic Richmond Town on Staten Island. 6 and 8 p.m. [$16] • New York Red Bulls at Orlando City S.C., 1 p.m. (MLS LIVE). Mets host Cardinals, 1:10 p.m. Yankees at Blue Jays, 4:07 p.m. Knicks host Pistons, 5 p.m. (MSG). Islanders vs. Devils, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers at Hurricanes, 7 p.m. (MSG 2). Nets at Heat, 8 p.m. (YES). New York City F.C. at San Jose Earthquakes, 8 p.m. (ESPN2). Sunday • Smorgasburg, the open-air food market, returns for the season to Breeze Hill in Brooklyn’s Prospect Park. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Advertisement • Watch some “Magic at Coney” at the Coney Island Museum in Brooklyn. Noon. [Tickets start at $5] • On Easter, “a propitious date for resurrection,” the Morbid Anatomy Library unveils its new home, the 1877 Fort Hamilton Gate House, at an open house in Brooklyn’s Green-Wood Cemetery. Noon to 5 p.m. [Free] • The annual Orchid Show continues with “Fantastically Fragrant Orchids,” a demonstration on orchid care, at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. Times vary. [$25] • Yankees at Blue Jays, 1:07 p.m. Mets host Cardinals, 1:10 p.m. Nets host Pistons, 6 p.m. (YES). Devils at Canadiens, 7 p.m. (MSG+). • For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide. It’s a gray Friday, but it’s a Good Friday. The annual Way of the Cross procession, a tradition in our city since 1996, will cross from Brooklyn to Manhattan this morning, making stops at several prominent sites for readings and performances. It begins at Cathedral Basilica of St. James in Downtown Brooklyn at 10 a.m., continuing to the Brooklyn Bridge, City Hall Park and Zuccotti Park before reaching its final destination, at St. Peter’s Church in Lower Manhattan, three hours later. The walk drew nearly 3,000 participants last year; those joining today will be accompanied by John Bartlett, a retired firefighter from Staten Island who will be carrying the cross; the bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn; the archbishop of New York; and other religious leaders. Advertisement (Reading from outside New York? There will be similar processions in more than a dozen cities nationwide today.) New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here. For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook. What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.  Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter. You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By AUDRA D. S. BURCHMARCH 30, 2018
 KATY, Tex. — When Hurricane Harvey struck Houston, floodwaters swept through Eileen and Jeff Swanson’s two-story brick home, blanketing the first floor in muck and nearly destroying a domestic existence 12 years in the making. Their china cabinet, in the family for three generations, was reduced to a sodden mess. A couch, once a soft red, had blushed into a watery burgundy; the carpet squished like grass at the bottom of a marsh. A dirty foot-high water line ran wall to wall, marking the local crest of an event that the National Weather Service called “the most significant tropical cyclone rainfall event in United States history.” After the floodwaters receded, the Swansons returned to a house ravaged, endless questions, few answers — and a looming decision. They are not alone. Hundreds of homeowners in Canyon Gate at Cinco Ranch, a quiet subdivision in a west Houston suburb, are mired in a slow, frustrating effort to rebuild. Others have formed an uneasy exodus, their attachment to familiar places and routines irreparably battered by a storm that dumped 50-plus inches and caused widespread flooding. They are now selling their gutted homes at well below pre-storm prices. The fundamental decision — stay or go — is one being faced by homeowners all around the Houston area. As climate change increases the frequency and intensity of storms like Harvey, no neighborhood is immune from being flooded again. But the Swansons and other homeowners in Canyon Gate face a far more certain prospect: Their neighborhood is on land that was designed to be flooded. It is part of a reservoir that was built by the United States Army Corps of Engineers in the 1940s to prevent catastrophic flooding downtown, a fact that developers did little to publicize when they built Canyon Gate in the 1990s. 
            Stories in this series examine the fallout from Hurricane Harvey in a Houston neighborhood that’s destined to flood again.         On a blistering September afternoon at the Swanson house, 20 box fans and an industrial blower ran nonstop in a battle against rot and decay. The family was still consigned to five rooms upstairs, and Ms. Swanson, 48, a senior executive assistant at an industrial automation company, was downstairs watching a YouTube demonstration of how to hang wallboard. At the top of the steps, Mr. Swanson, 52, was compiling a mental to-do list: Make another trip to Home Depot, haul more stuff to the storage unit, get back in time to help with the delivery of a stack of new wallboard. Their 23-year-old son Allen, who is severely developmentally disabled, was watching television. It was already a familiar routine. “It feels like our life is somewhere between, ‘Where do I start?’ and ‘Why isn’t this getting done?’” Mr. Swanson said. Advertisement There was a lot keeping the Swansons in Canyon Gate. They had paid off the house, purchased in 2006 for $225,000, just a few months before the flood. That freed them from a monthly mortgage. The home was close to their younger son Nick’s school and in a neighborhood they loved, and they had adapted the space to suit Allen’s disabilities — he has seizures, so they needed open areas where they could watch him from other parts of the house. In a hundred different ways, floods or no floods, this was their home. Advertisement And yet the case for leaving was clear. Two weeks before the floods, Mr. Swanson had quit his job as a security guard, with the intention of looking for work without so many late hours. The Swansons had some savings, but the money was meant to pay for Nick, 17, a high school junior, to attend college. With only one income, there was little money left over for repairs and renovations that would cost upward of $60,000. Hanging over the entire process was the knowledge that a similar — or even worse — flood could hit again, possibly even as soon as the next hurricane season. “I am pretty sure we would not have moved into this house if we knew,” Ms. Swanson said. Hugh Durlam knew he was staying. As a 13-year resident and former homeowners association board member, Mr. Durlam was completely invested in Canyon Gate. But he wanted to know what happened to others in the neighborhood. So on the Canyon Gate Facebook page he administers, he recently posted a survey asking homeowners if renovations were completed or close to completion, if they were still rebuilding, or if they had not yet started. Of the 202 responses, all but two were involved in some kind of renovation. “This is going to be a brand-new 20-year-old community. It’s worth saving,” said Mr. Durlam, who works for a Houston engineering firm. He supports a plan to deepen the reservoir and build a levee to protect the neighborhood, he said, “something that should have been done a long time ago.” Christina Raena Micu isn’t certain about what to do next. When Harvey hit, she anxiously watched television footage of the storm from a Dallas hotel room, where she had taken shelter with her husband and two of her three children. Her 20-year-old son had stayed behind, sending dispatches as the waters invaded their neighborhood, before finally evacuating in chest-deep water with only a backpack. Inside Ms. Micu’s home, everything on the first floor was submerged within or floating atop a couple of feet of muddy water. When she returned from Dallas, she rushed to her bedroom hoping her collection of childhood photos had somehow survived. She had left the photo albums in a pile on the carpeted floor with plans to one day organize them on a bookshelf. They were stuck together, the images swirled into watercolor blurs, too damaged to save. But what she saw next was more immediately concerning: mold. “I have a 5-year-old son with asthma who has already been hospitalized once for it,” she said. “I can’t just move back in. It’s much more complicated than that for me.” Advertisement After she moved her family into an apartment about 10 minutes away, signing a one-year lease with some financial assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Ms. Micu, a real estate investor, embarked on a monthslong renovation of her flood-soaked home, ripping out the floors and walls and repeatedly treating the house with mold bombs, foggers and air purifiers. Almost every day, Ms. Micu weighed her choices. Some days, she was sure she would stay. The house was in a safe neighborhood, roomy with a swing set in the backyard. Before the storm, she was even planning an addition. Other days, she knew moving was her only choice. Both options were expensive. Selling meant taking a big hit: She paid $183,000 for the house six years ago and figured it was not worth much more than half of that now. But for as long as they lived in their temporary apartment, she was paying rent and a mortgage. FEMA gave her about $16,000, but the renovation bids were all around $70,000. By the time the four-bedroom house passed a mold test in February, Ms. Micu was thinking that she might split the difference. Move her family elsewhere, but keep the house as a rental. “With my son’s immune system, I can’t have a situation where the mold is a trigger,” said Ms. Micu, a Houston native whose parents are Filipino immigrants. “I can’t take the chance.” Something else was nagging Ms. Micu. She wondered how the subdivisions could have been built in a reservoir. And if they had to be sacrificed, shouldn’t the homeowners be compensated? “This pushed our lives in another path,” she said. “How could we have known that we would return from Dallas and practically have to start over?” The questions are what pushed her to look for a law firm. In September, she became one of the lead plaintiffs in a federal class-action suit against the Army Corps of Engineers. “Harvey took away my photo album with pictures from every year of my life. It took so many things. It took the purse that my husband bought me as a gift. He spent three months looking for it,” she said. “Harvey took away my sense of security, but so did the Army Corps of Engineers. What happened to us was wrong.” Advertisement When Paulette Delynn Archer, 70, greets a visitor in the doorway of her one-story brick house, she is framed by large picture windows that reveal the emptiness inside, where flooding and renovation have left little more than wood studs between the front door and the back patio. “Come in, let me show you the house,” Ms. Archer offered in a cheery voice that soon gave way to silence. “Well, this used to be my house. Now it’s just a shell.” Ms. Archer had once delighted in having guests over to see her four-bedroom home, where everything was the color of soft gold or pumpkin. This is where she had raised her only son, where her husband and mother spent their final days, where she had planned to spend her remaining days. But the four feet of mud and water that gushed through the house had demanded something radically different. Two decades ago, Ms. Archer and her husband had paid roughly $200,000 for the house and watched it appreciate to more than $300,000. She said it would cost well over $100,000 to renovate the house and her FEMA grant would only cover a small fraction. After Hurricane Harvey hit, these communities, built in what is called a flood pool, were sacrificed to save the city of Houston. We followed homeowners as they decided whether to cut their losses or rebuild, knowing it could happen again. In the mornings, while staying at a La Quinta Inn, Ms. Archer would make lists in a blue three-ring binder of items lost, mostly items that came to her in her dreams. “I finally stopped trying to sum up my entire life. It was just too stressful. But that list told me that as much as I loved my house, there was no way out of this but to sell,” said Ms. Archer, who spent the first part of her career as a flight attendant then became a police officer for the Port of Houston Authority. “I couldn’t get a loan at my age and with no job. How would I pay it back?” She had lost everything once before, as a teenager in a house fire. The crushing loss felt the same; the inability to recover felt far different. Like other homeowners, Ms. Archer said she had no idea the house was built in a reservoir. She was told over and over that she did not need flood insurance, she said. Two or three times she purchased it anyway and then let the policy expire. Three years earlier, she had taken out a reverse mortgage, which allows homeowners over 62 years old to convert equity into cash. After the flood, her house was worth less than the loan balance. It left her in a terrible bind. “I am sitting here thinking that I am not going to be able to get out of this situation,” she said. 
                Most residents whose homes flooded during Hurricane Harvey had no clue that their gated community was built in an area prone to such damage in extreme storms.             She eventually negotiated with the lender to offer the house as a short sale for $125,000. Earlier this month, Ms. Archer closed on the sale and walked away for good. Now fearful of floods and the sound of hard rain, she plans to move near a nephew in Dallas, where she will re-enter the job market 10 years after her retirement. Advertisement “There is no way I could have imagined I would be starting over at this point in my life,” she said, then sighed deeply. “I know everything will be O.K. Eventually.” On a fall afternoon, as they were in the garage sorting the few salvageable pieces — the roar of trucks carting debris in the distance — Mr. Swanson turned to Ms. Swanson, his wife of 24 years. “I don’t want to leave. Do you?” he blurted out. Ms. Swanson shook her head. Neither did she. For the Swansons, rebuilding was the only choice. They knew it would be hard, but this was home. Instead of returning to work, Mr. Swanson pitched in on the repairs. “For now,” Ms. Swanson said, “it make more sense for Jeff to be home helping with the house rather than to be on a job making $12 an hour.” The couple also bought flood insurance. In October, they received a FEMA grant for about $10,300, part of the more than $91 million the federal agency distributed in Fort Bend County. They also received donated kitchen countertops and cabinets through a state program and a $25,000 grant from Fort Bend Recovers, a local public-private disaster assistance coalition, for construction costs. There was still a gap, but it was manageable, and less than the cost of a new house and mortgage. The numbers made sense, but Mr. Swanson said he also had a more personal reason for staying. “It took me this many years to finally become a Texan,” he said. “Harvey is not going to run us away.” Stories in this series examine the fallout from Hurricane Harvey in a Houston neighborhood that’s destined to flood again. Check out a video, a graphic, and stories about who benefits. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: A Grim Choice: Sell at a Loss Or Stay at Risk?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
