Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 5:06 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  To track down people in Britain who may have broken immigration rules, the government is turning to a new and controversial source of information: doctors. Doctors who work with refugees and asylum-seekers have described the move as a major breach of medical ethics, saying it isn't up to physicians to enforce immigration rules. In letters recently made public, politicians sparred with immigration officials over a data-sharing agreement quietly signed in 2016 that gives the government access to personal information collected by the country's family doctors. Medical details are excluded. A parliamentary health committee condemned the situation as "unacceptable," calling for the agreement to be suspended. Advertisement But Britain's immigration department has dismissed those concerns, arguing that such data sharing allows the U.K. to remove people "who might pose a danger to the public." Advertisement Medical workers back the health committee's viewpoint. "We understand the government has a job to do, but going into health records to get patient information is not OK," said Lucy Jones, director of programs at Doctors of the World U.K. "The idea that any patient information is being shared with a government body immediately breaks their trust in a doctor-patient relationship." Several leading medical organizations, including the Royal College of General Practitioners, Public Health England and the General Medical Council, have all slammed the data-sharing deal, saying it could worsen the health of vulnerable people and drive disease outbreaks underground, hurting health care for all. Dalia Omer, a refugee from Sudan who was granted asylum in the U.K. in February after nearly two years, sought medical help several times while awaiting the government's decision. She said had she known about the data sharing arrangement, she would not have been as forthcoming. "If I knew the doctors could share information with the Home Office, I would not tell them everything," she said, referring to the British department that oversees immigration and security. She said she might even lie about certain details to protect herself. Dr. Kitty Worthing, a London-based doctor with the group Docs Not Cops, said "the cornerstone of the doctor-patient relationship is confidentiality and this data-sharing is a direct breach of that." She said when she's advised people that their personal information could be shared with immigration officials "their reaction is always fear." Elsewhere in Europe, many countries have a strict firewall that stops information gathered by health services from being disclosed to other government agencies. Germany's data protection office said regulations prohibit any blanket sharing of such information. In France, no data obtained by doctors is shared with the Interior Ministry.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Some health experts said it was critical that some types of health care are available to everyone in the U.K., regardless of their immigration status. "With HIV treatment, it makes much more sense to treat everybody with HIV, because treatment lowers the level of virus in your blood so you can't pass it on," said Kat Smithson of the National AIDS Trust. "If people are not diagnosed because they're not accessing health care, they're not aware they're living with HIV, which means they're far more likely to pass it on to somebody else." Advertisement The British government, however, says protecting its borders outweighs those concerns. "We believe that the release of (patient) information is lawful and proportionate action in pursuit of the effective enforcement of the U.K.'s immigration policy," wrote Caroline Noakes, the minister of state for immigration, and James O'Shaughnessy, parliamentary undersecretary of state for health, responding to lawmaker's concerns. They cited the case of a Pakistani citizen who overstayed a visitor's visa. After the Pakistani was refused residency in 2013, contact with the Home Office was broken off. Immigration officials sent a request to health services, which revealed a new address. "The Home Office visited the address and arrested the individual, a convicted sex offender, who is now complying with the Home Office and will leave the U.K.," Noakes and O'Shaughnessy wrote, describing patients' non-medical data as being "at the lower end of the privacy spectrum." From last November to January, health officials agreed to nearly 1,300 requests for information. Of those, health officials found 501 cases where patients had a different address from the one in Home Office records. Some Londoners said it was OK for immigration officials to get data from doctors under certain conditions. "If the Home Office needs the information for a good reason, I guess it's OK, but they should ask the people for permission," said Farooq, outside an east London clinic that provides health care largely for migrants. He declined to give his last name because he was worried about the immigration status of his father, originally from Afghanistan. Farooq said data sharing could make migrants nervous about getting medical attention. "It could put people in a risky situation if they're worried about their visa and they need to see a doctor," he said. ___ Elaine Ganley in Paris and David Rising in Berlin contributed to this report. ___ This story changes wording in second paragraph from "last month" to reflect the letters were made public in February. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 6:42 P.M. E.D.T.
 A data breach at department store chains Saks Fifth Avenue, Saks Off Fifth and Lord & Taylor has compromised the personal information of customers who shopped at the stores. The chains' parent company, Canada-based Hudson's Bay Co., announced the breach of its store payment systems on Sunday. The company said it was investigating and taking steps to contain the attack. The disclosure came after New York-based security firm Gemini Advisory LLC revealed on Sunday that a hacking group known as JokerStash or Fin7 began boasting on dark websites last week that it was putting up for sale up to 5 million stolen credit and debit cards. The hackers named their stash BIGBADABOOM-2. While the extent of its holdings remains unclear, about 125,000 records were immediately released for sale. The security firm confirmed with several banks that many of the compromised records came from Saks and Lord & Taylor customers. Advertisement Hudson's Bay said in a statement that it "deeply regrets any inconvenience or concern this may cause," but it hasn't said how many Saks or Lord & Taylor stores or customers were affected. The company said there's no indication that the breach affected its online shopping websites or other brands, including the Home Outfitters chain or Hudson's Bay stores in Canada. Advertisement The company said customers won't be liable for fraudulent charges. It plans to offer free credit monitoring and other identity protection services. There is evidence that the breach began about a year ago, said Dmitry Chorine, Gemini Advisory's co-founder and chief technology officer. He said the prolific hacking group has previously targeted major hotel and restaurant chains.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The breach follows last year's high-profile hack of credit bureau Equifax that exposed the personal data of millions of Americans. This newest breach, however, more closely resembles past retail breaches that have targeted the point-of-sale systems used by companies from Home Depot to Target and Neiman Marcus. Chorine said the hackers' typical method is to send cleverly crafted phishing emails to company employees, especially managers, supervisors and other key decision-makers. Once an employee clicks on an attachment, which is often made to look like an invoice, the system gets infected. "For an entire year, criminals were able to sit on the network of Lord & Taylor and Saks and steal data," he said. Chorine said most of the stolen credit cards appear to have been obtained from stores in the New York City metropolitan area and other Northeast U.S. states. It's possible, he said, that those stores hadn't yet adopted the more secure credit card payment systems that have been rolled out elsewhere. Hudson's Bay is advising customers who want more information about the breach to visit security-response websites it's created for Saks Fifth Avenue , Saks Off Fifth , and Lord & Taylor . We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 6:56 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board said on Sunday it was "unhappy" that electric car maker Tesla Inc made public information about the crash of its Model X vehicle on Autopilot that killed the driver last month. The agency "needs the cooperation of Tesla to decode the data the vehicle recorded," NTSB spokesman Chris O'Neil said in a statement. "In each of our investigations involving a Tesla vehicle, Tesla has been extremely cooperative on assisting with the vehicle data." "However, the NTSB is unhappy with the release of investigative information by Tesla," he added. A Tesla spokesperson declined to comment. The board's reaction to Tesla was first reported by the Washington Post Sunday evening. O'Neil was responding to Tesla's announcement on Friday that the Tesla Model X involved in the crash had activated its Autopilot system moments before the March 23 mishap. Advertisement The driver, 38, died at a nearby hospital shortly after the vehicle hit a concrete highway divider near Mountain View, California. The mishap involved two other vehicles. Advertisement "The NTSB is looking into all aspects of this crash including the driver's previous concerns about the autopilot," said O'Neil. "We will work to determine the probable cause of the crash and our next update of information about our investigation will likely be when we publish a preliminary report, which generally occurs within a few weeks of completion of field work."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Last week, the company said that a search of its service records did not "find anything suggesting that the customer ever complained to Tesla about the performance of Autopilot. There was a concern raised once about navigation not working correctly, but Autopilot's performance is unrelated to navigation." In its announcement on Friday, the company said that shortly before the crash, the vehicle's "Autopilot was engaged with the adaptive cruise control follow-distance set to minimum." Autopilot allows drivers to take their hands off the wheel for extended periods under certain conditions. Tesla requires users to agree to keep their hands on the wheel at all times before they can use Autopilot. Users, however, routinely brag they can use the system to drive hands-free. In its Friday statement, Tesla also said vehicle logs from the accident showed no action had been taken by the driver right before the crash and that he had received earlier warnings to put his hands on the wheel. The statement did not say why the Autopilot system apparently did not detect the concrete divider. (Reporting by Jonathan Landay. Editing by Damon Darlin and Richard Chang) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By VINDU GOEL and RACHEL ABRAMSAPRIL 1, 2018
 Saks has been hacked — adding to the already formidable challenges faced by the luxury retailer. A well-known ring of cybercriminals has obtained more than five million credit and debit card numbers from customers of Saks Fifth Avenue and Lord & Taylor, according to a cybersecurity research firm that specializes in tracking stolen financial data. The data, the firm said, appears to have been stolen using software that was implanted into the cash register systems at the stores and that siphoned card numbers until last month. The Hudson’s Bay Company, the Canadian corporation that owns both retail chains, confirmed on Sunday that a breach had occurred. “We have become aware of a data security issue involving customer payment card data at certain Saks Fifth Avenue, Saks Off 5th and Lord & Taylor stores in North America,” the company said in a statement. “We have identified the issue, and have taken steps to contain it. Once we have more clarity around the facts, we will notify our customers quickly and will offer those impacted free identity protection services, including credit and web monitoring.” Hudson’s Bay said that its investigation was continuing but that its e-commerce platforms appeared to have been unaffected by the breach. The company declined to identify how many customer accounts or stores were affected. Advertisement The theft is one of the largest known breaches of a retailer and shows just how difficult it is to secure credit-card transaction systems despite the lessons learned from other large data breaches, including the theft of 40 million card numbers from Target in 2013 and 56 million card numbers from Home Depot in 2014. Last year, Equifax, a credit reporting firm, disclosed that sensitive financial information on 145.5 million Americans had been exposed in a breach of the company’s systems. Advertisement The research firm that identified the Saks breach, Gemini Advisory, said on Sunday that a group of Russian-speaking hackers known as Fin7 or JokerStash posted online on Wednesday that it had obtained a cache of five million stolen card numbers, which the thieves called BIGBADABOOM-2. The hackers, who have also hit other retail chains, offered 125,000 of the records for immediate sale. The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Fin7 did not disclose where the numbers had been obtained. But the researchers, working in conjunction with banks, analyzed a sample of the records and determined that the card numbers all seemed to have been used at Saks and Lord & Taylor stores, mostly in New York and New Jersey, from May 2017 to March 2018. Although it’s unclear exactly how the malware was installed in the stores’ checkout systems, Gemini said it was most likely through phishing emails sent to Hudson’s Bay employees. In a phishing attack, hackers send seemingly legitimate emails to a company’s employees that encourage them to click on a link or attached file that secretly installs software on their computers, giving the attackers a back door into the systems. The breach comes at a difficult time for Saks and Lord & Taylor, and retailers more generally. Online shopping has cut deeply into the traditional brick-and-mortar retail industry, and department stores have been particularly slow to adapt to the new ways that people shop. Chains that cater to a spectrum of income levels and affluence have seen their sales dwindle. The once-mighty Macy’s has closed stores and laid off thousands of employees. Neiman Marcus, a high-end brand, was at one point mulling a merger with Hudson’s Bay. And last year, Lord & Taylor, a jewel of luxury shopping in the Hudson’s Bay portfolio, sold its 676,000-square-foot flagship Manhattan location, the latest retail titan to acknowledge that much of its value now comes simply from the physical buildings where shoppers once flocked. As digital forces reshape the retail industry, Hudson’s Bay executives have watched the company’s stock plummet in recent years. Comparable store sales — one important measure of performance — dropped 2.6 percent in its department stores group in the most recent quarter. In October, Hudson’s Bay announced that its chief executive, Gerald L. Storch, would step down, a departure that shook up the top ranks just ahead of the crucial holiday shopping season. Helena Foulkes, a veteran of the pharmacy giant CVS Health Corporation, was appointed to the position in February. Hudson’s Bay said customers could get further information on dedicated pages on the websites of Saks Fifth Avenue, Saks Off 5th and Lord & Taylor. Follow Vindu Goel and Rachel Abrams on Twitter: @vindugoel and @RachelAbramsNY. A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Hackers Stole Data From Millions of Cards at Saks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 4:02 P.M. E.D.T.
 TORONTO/NEW YORK —  Retailer Hudson's Bay Co on Sunday disclosed that it was the victim of a security breach that compromised data on payment cards used at Saks and Lord & Taylor stores in North America. One cyber security firm said that it has evidence that millions of cards may have been compromised, which would make the breach one of the largest involving payment cards over the past year, but added that it was too soon to confirm whether that was the case. Toronto-based Hudson's Bay said in a statement that it had "taken steps to contain" the breach but did not say it had succeeded in confirming that its network was secure. It also did not say when the breach had begun or how many payment card numbers were taken. “Once we have more clarity around the facts, we will notify our customers quickly and will offer those impacted free identity protection services, including credit and web monitoring,” the statement said. Advertisement A company spokeswoman declined to elaborate. The breach comes as Hudson's Bay struggles to improve its financial performance as a tough retail environment has weighed on sales and margins. Last June, it launched a transformation plan to cut costs and is working to monetize the value of its substantial real estate holdings. Advertisement Hudson's Bay disclosed the incident after New York-based cyber security firm Gemini Advisory reported on its blog that Saks and Lord & Taylor had been hacked by a well-known criminal group known as JokerStash. JokerStash, which sells stolen data on the criminal underground, on Wednesday said that it planned to release more than 5 million stolen credit cards, according to Gemini Chief Technology Officer Dmitry Chorine. The hacking group has so far released about 125,000 payment cards, about 75 percent of which appear to have been taken from the Hudson's Bay units, Chorine told Reuters by telephone. The bulk of the 5 million card numbers that JokerStash said it plans to release are likely from Saks and Lord & Taylor, but it is too early to say for sure, Chorine said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It’s hard to assess at the moment, primarily because hackers have not released the entire cards in one batch," he told Reuters. Alex Holden, chief information security officer with cyber security firm Hold Security, confirmed that the 125,000 cards had been released by JokerStash but said it was too soon to estimate how many had been taken from Hudson's Bay. If in fact millions of records were stolen, the breach would be one of the largest involving payment cards in the past year, but it would still be far smaller than any of the biggest thefts on record, which occurred a decade ago. Hackers stole more than 130 million credit cards from credit-card processor Heartland Payment Systems, convenience store operator 7-Eleven Inc and grocer Hannaford Brothers Co, from 2006 to 2008, according to U.S. federal investigators. Advertisement Cyber criminals stole some 40 million payment cards in a 2013 hack on Target Corp and 56 million from Home Depot Inc in 2014. Hudson's Bay said there is no indication its recent breach involved online sales at Saks and Lord & Taylor outlets or its Hudson’s Bay, Home Outfitters and HBC Europe units. The company said that customers will not be liable for fraudulent charges resulting from the breach. (Reporting by Jim Finkle in Toronto and David Henry in New York; Editing by Bill Rigby and Steve Orlofsky) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 7:18 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  When Moe Wagner gets frustrated during Michigan's practices, he'll sometimes turn away from his teammates and let loose with a loud, multisyllabic string of what his teammates can only assume are profanities. "When he swears in German, that's the funniest thing ever," said center Jon Teske, Wagner's roommate. "He'll make a mistake or something, and he'll just go off in the corner and (scream) these really long words. We'll be like, 'What are you talking about?' But that emotion is a big part of him." More than his size or his vocabulary choices, Wagner's passion for basketball is his defining feature to teammates and coaches at Michigan. That passion first got him fascinated with college basketball while growing up in a country where the NCAA system is largely unknown, and that passion spurred him to leave Berlin for Ann Arbor to experience it for himself. "College basketball is crazy," Wagner said Sunday. "It's something very unique, and I think people here don't (understand) how unique it is, because where I'm from, there's nothing like that." Advertisement Wagner nearly turned pro last summer, but he has turned his extra March at Michigan into a showcase during a series of impressive performances. With strength, skill and enough grace to tiptoe through the television broadcast crew while chasing a loose ball off the elevated Final Four court, Wagner is likely to play a major role in the Wolverines' attempt to upset mighty Villanova on Monday night. Advertisement The rest of the Wolverines realize they're in their first NCAA Tournament championship game since 2013 largely because their 6-foot-11 center wouldn't allow them to lose to Loyola-Chicago. Wagner's teammates went 4 for 23 in the first half at the Alamodome, and Michigan fell behind the plucky 11th-seeded Ramblers by 10 points before Wagner took charge. The center piled up 24 points and 15 rebounds — including six offensive boards, more than the rest of his team combined — while the Wolverines roared back for a 69-57 win. Wagner joined Hakeem Olajuwon and Larry Bird as the only players to get 20 points and 15 rebounds in an NCAA Tournament semifinal. He even got the ultimate honor for a German baller: a tweet from Dirk Nowitzki — although Wagner had to be told about it, because he's trying to stay focused on basketball by deleting Twitter from his phone. "That made my day," Wagner said. "I looked it up right away. That was pretty special, because he's the G.O.A.T. for us." Wagner has all proper respect for Nowitzki, yet his favorite player growing up was Kevin Garnett, and his teammates see his emulation of Garnett's physical, fiery style — hence the swear words. "Obviously, he's a little crazy in the head," Wagner said of Garnett. "But I appreciate that, because I'm a little crazy out there, too."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When a German coaching friend put Wagner on Michigan coach John Beilein's radar five years ago, Beilein could tell Wagner wasn't a normal teenager from their first phone conversation. The German kid was upbeat, personable and completely comfortable speaking with adults an ocean away — but Beilein could only scout him on film. So Beilein made a one-day trip to Germany. The coach met Wagner and his parents at the Berlin apartment, having a fruitful conversation over the big German meal and beer he had requested. Advertisement "When I got in the elevator with the young man, by the time I got out of the elevator, I said, 'If this kid is good at all, I'm going to give him a scholarship,'" Beilein said. "He was so engaging." Wagner was just as eager to learn about Beilein after seeing him on television six months earlier in the 2013 NCAA Tournament finale. Many young Germans follow the NBA with the same fervor as their American counterparts, but even the concept of college basketball is unfamiliar. Wagner was already a college basketball fan five years ago, constantly staying up late to watch big games even while preparing for his own. Wagner was on a bus to Hamburg for a game when Michigan lost to Louisville in the Final Four that year. He downloaded the game a day later to watch with a friend who now plays for Alba Berlin, Wagner's former club in the Basketball Bundesliga. "It's funny, because (the friend) watches my games now," Wagner said with a grin and a voice with barely a trace of a German accent. Wagner is now in the main event for this distinctly American version of his sport. Back home in the Prenzlauer Berg neighborhood of Berlin, several bars are staying open until the wee hours to allow fans to get a look at the local guy in maize and blue. "It's cool to have so many people interested, and to have such a big support system," Wagner said. "My mom told me the other day that there are so many people who know me and who are calling them all the time. They want to be a part of it. They ask where to watch the games, and that's something that makes me very proud and happy." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By NATHANIEL POPPERAPRIL 1, 2018
 From Bitcoin to Litecoin to Ethereum, we explain how cryptocurrency transactions work. SAN FRANCISCO — Worried about someone hacking the next election? Bothered by the way Facebook and Equifax coughed up your personal information? The technology industry has an answer called the blockchain — even for the problems the industry helped to create. The first blockchain was created in 2009 as a new kind of database for the virtual currency Bitcoin, where all transactions could be stored without any banks or governments involved. Now, countless entrepreneurs, companies and governments are looking to use similar databases — often independent of Bitcoin — to solve some of the most intractable issues facing society. Advertisement “People feel the need to move away from something like Facebook and toward something that allows them to have ownership of their own data,” said Ryan Shea, a co-founder of Blockstack, a New York company working with blockchain technology. Advertisement The creator of the World Wide Web, Tim Berners-Lee, has said the blockchain could help reduce the big internet companies’ influence and return the web to his original vision. But he has also warned that it could come with some of the same problems as the web. Blockchain allows information to be stored and exchanged by a network of computers without any central authority. In theory, this egalitarian arrangement also makes it harder for data to be altered or hacked. Investors, for one, see potential. While the price of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies have plummeted this year, investment in other blockchain projects has remained strong. In the first three months of 2018, venture capitalists put half a billion dollars into 75 blockchain projects, more than double what they raised in the last quarter of 2017, according to data from Pitchbook. Most of the projects have not gotten beyond pilot testing, and many are aimed at transforming mundane corporate tasks like financial trading and accounting. But some experiments promise to transform fundamental things, like the way we vote and the way we interact online. “There is just so much it can do,” said Bradley Tusk, a former campaign manager for Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, who has recently thrown his weight behind several blockchain projects. “I love the fact that you can transmit data, information and choices in a way that is really hard to hack — really hard to disrupt and that can be really efficient.” Mr. Tusk, the founder of Tusk Strategies, is an investor in some large virtual currency companies. He has also supported efforts aimed at getting governments to move voting online to blockchain-based systems. Mr. Tusk argues that blockchains could make reliable online voting possible because the votes could be recorded in a tamper-proof way. “Everything is moving toward people saying, ‘I want all the benefits of the internet, but I want to protect my privacy and my security,’” he said. “The only thing I know that can reconcile those things is the blockchain.” Advertisement Blockchains assemble data into so-called blocks that are chained together using complicated math. Since each block is built off the last one and includes information like time stamps, any attempt to go back and alter existing data would be highly complicated. In the original Bitcoin blockchain, the data in the blocks is information about Bitcoin wallets and transactions. The blocks of data in the Bitcoin blockchain — and most of its imitators — are kept by a peer-to-peer computer network. The novel structure allows people to set up online accounts that can securely hold valuable personal information without having to trust a single entity that can hoard, abuse or lose control of the data, as happened with Facebook and the consumer credit reporting agency Equifax. A range of corporations and governments are trying to apply the blockchain model — for projects from the prosaic to the radical. Various departments of the United Nations now have blockchain experiments looking to tackle climate change, the delivery of humanitarian aid and the identity challenges faced by stateless people. Coca-Cola and the State Department recently announced a project to register foreign employees on a blockchain in an attempt to eliminate forced labor. These experiments have drawn skepticism from Bitcoin aficionados, who say blockchains are being applied to problems that could be more easily solved with old-fashioned databases. Other critics say the rapid pace of blockchain development could lead to the same problem facing the broader tech industry: a willingness to disrupt and overthrow old systems before the replacement has been thoroughly tested. “The blockchain industry is ready and waiting to say, ‘Yes, we are the solution,’ and they have every incentive to do so,” said Angela Walch, a research fellow at the Center for Blockchain Technologies at University College London. “But somebody needs to ask the question: ‘Is it actually better? Is it measurably better?’”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Many blockchain projects opened themselves to criticism and regulatory scrutiny by raising money through so-called initial coin offerings last year. These fund-raising campaigns often brought in tens of millions of dollars in minutes with little regulatory oversight. But new blockchain efforts continue apace, motivated in no small part by concerns about the emergence of internet giants like Facebook and YouTube. Most of the biggest internet companies make their money from collecting personal information and using it to sell targeted advertisements. This kind of massive data collection makes them vulnerable to hackers and outsiders who want to leverage the data — as was evident when Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to 50 million Facebook profiles. And start-ups are using the blockchain in an attempt to pry control of all that data out of their hands. Advertisement Blockstack has built a way to record the basic details about your identity on a blockchain database and then use that identity to set up accounts with other online projects that are built on top of it. The animating force behind the project is that users — rather than Blockstack or any other company — would end up in control of all the data they generate with any online service. Blockstack is one of several blockchain-based projects hoping to create a new generation of online services that don’t rely on having unfettered access to our personal information. The idea has gained enough steam that in the days after news of Facebook’s relationship with Cambridge Analytica broke, Twitter was filled with people calling for blockchain-based alternatives. 
            As Facebook is collapsing we need to replace it with a blockchain based, decentralized platform! https://t.co/lgFGh3bHLi  “As Facebook is collapsing we need to replace it with a blockchain based, decentralized platform!” one user, @GerdMoeBehrens, wrote. 
            50 m Facebook profiles harvested for in major data breach | News | The Guardian #blockchain WE NEED U NOW!!! https://t.co/P0twwKsu2g  “#blockchain WE NEED U NOW!!!” wrote another, @andymartin46. But Mr. Berners-Lee has warned that the development of the blockchain could come with unintended consequences, like more activity from criminals operating outside the oversight of governments. Even blockchain advocates say the hype has conditioned people to think that good answers are close at hand, when it could take five or 10 years for the technology to properly develop. In fact, most blockchain projects are still plagued by concerns about privacy. For example, the widely used Bitcoin blockchain allows certain data — details of the transactions between users — to be seen by anyone, even if other data — the users’ identities — remains obscured. Voting start-ups have solved this by encrypting the data before putting it on a blockchain, but there are questions about whether this will solve other privacy concerns. Blockchain-based accounts also rely on users keeping their own passwords or private keys, which people are famously bad at doing. With Bitcoin, when people lose their private key they lose access to the money in their account — if someone lost the private key to a blockchain-based online account, they could lose access to their identity. Advertisement “We’re not saying that tomorrow you can flip the switch and a blockchain is going to solve these problems,” said Michael Casey, a co-author of “The Truth Machine,” a new book on the blockchain. “What’s important is how it opens the door to a new way of thinking about the problems we face.” Follow Nathaniel Popper on Twitter: @nathanielpopper. A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Tech’s Answer For Security: Blockchain.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By NICK WINGFIELDAPRIL 1, 2018
 The recent tribulations of Facebook, which has lurched from crisis to crisis over the last year, most recently over the handling of users’ personal data, has pushed a few of the industry’s most prominent names to speak out against the company. Marc Benioff, the chief executive of Salesforce.com, has compared the deleterious effects of social media to those of tobacco and alcohol, and has called for more regulation of those tech companies. Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, has also suggested new regulation protecting personal data might be in order for businesses like Facebook. “I think that this certain situation is so dire and has become so large that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary,” Mr. Cook said recently at an event in China, referring to Facebook’s recent problems. But don’t expect a long lineup of other industry leaders to speak out any time soon. Although technology companies have their differences, a spirit of comity prevails among its leaders in moments of crisis. For example, technology chiefs have mostly kept quiet about Uber’s travails — from its efforts to sidestep law enforcement to a pedestrian death caused by one of its self-driving cars — even if they might express their opinions privately. Advertisement Representatives from companies as varied as Amazon, Microsoft and Slack declined to comment for this story. Part of the silence, people in the industry say, comes from a desire to avoid the business equivalent of bad karma — knowing that they, too, may one day face the buzz saw of public censure. Advertisement Others say companies have little moral standing to criticize Facebook’s practices, when they have themselves relied on the social network to acquire customers, using the same ad-targeting tools that rely on personal data that have stirred up so much controversy in the context of politics. “I think we just have to acknowledge the entire industry’s complicity with what’s happening with Facebook,” said Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an internet real estate firm. “It’s almost like we’re Inspector Renault in ‘Casablanca’ where we say we’re shocked, shocked with what’s happening and then a moment later someone hands us our winnings.” “We’ve all been advertising avidly on Facebook,” Mr. Kelman added. Many companies are also linked to Facebook through partnerships, professional organizations and a worldview about the power of data that is not all that different from that of Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook. The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “It has been really hard for executives to turn their back on the gold mine of big data even in the face of compelling arguments to do so,” said Roger McNamee, an early investor in Facebook and a mentor of Mr. Zuckerberg’s before becoming one of the company’s most vocal detractors. “The C.E.O.s who are stepping forward here are taking the long view.” Vanessa Chan, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to comment. There are many critics of Facebook in Silicon Valley. They include former tech workers, venture capitalists and entrepreneurs like Brian Acton, who became a billionaire when Facebook acquired WhatsApp, a messaging company he helped found. “It is time. #deletefacebook,” Mr. Acton posted on Twitter last month. 
            It is time. #deletefacebook  But there are few active corporate leaders in Silicon Valley who have taken a stand. Most of the handful of chiefs who have spoken out against Facebook have long been forthright on the topic of privacy. It is no coincidence that their businesses do not rely on the collection of personal data to the same degree that most internet companies do. Mr. Cook of Apple, which makes the vast majority of its revenue from the sale of devices, has for years declared that “when an online service is free, you’re not the customer — you’re the product.” Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment. When asked about the Facebook’s difficulties at an event in China recently, Ginni Rometty, chief executive of IBM, said companies needed to give their users better control over their personal information. “Ginni has long believed that individuals or customers own their data — not platforms,” said Edward Barbini, a spokesman for IBM. Advertisement Noah Theran, s spokesman for the Internet Association, a trade group that counts Facebook and Salesforce among its members, though not Apple and IBM, said maintaining privacy and security was a top priority for internet companies. “Internet companies comply with a wide variety of data privacy and security laws and regulations that are actively enforced by the F.T.C. and state attorneys general,” Mr. Theran said. “Trust and comfort with our products and services is essential to a thriving internet, and the internet industry is committed to providing people with information and tools to make informed choices about how their personal information is used, seen and shared online.” Another tech leader, Elon Musk, chief executive of Tesla and SpaceX, said recently on Twitter that none of his companies advertise on the social network and vowed to take down the official Facebook pages for Tesla and SpaceX. “It’s not a political statement and I didn’t do this because someone dared me to do it,” he wrote. “Just don’t like Facebook. Gives me the willies. Sorry.” Mr. McNamee, the early Facebook investor, believes more industry leaders should speak out, partly because he predicts the United States can and should eventually adopt more stringent regulations akin to those emerging in Europe. “Companies that get ahead of that curve,” he said, “will be way more successful than those who can pretend they can sustain the old model.” A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: As Facebook Struggles, Rivals Stay (Mostly) Mum.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By NICK WINGFIELD, PAUL MOZUR and MICHAEL CORKERYAPRIL 1, 2018
 SEATTLE — To see what it’s like inside stores where sensors and artificial intelligence have replaced cashiers, shoppers have to trek to Amazon Go, the internet retailer’s experimental convenience shop in downtown Seattle. Soon, though, more technology-driven businesses like Amazon Go may be coming to them. A global race to automate stores is underway among several of the world’s top retailers and small tech start-ups, which are motivated to shave labor costs and minimize shoppers’ frustrations, like waiting for cashiers. They are also trying to prevent Amazon from dominating the physical retail world as it does online shopping. Companies are testing robots that help keep shelves stocked, as well as apps that let shoppers ring up items with a smartphone. High-tech systems like the one used by Amazon Go completely automate the checkout process. China, which has its own ambitious e-commerce companies, is emerging as an especially fertile place for these retail experiments. If they succeed, these new technologies could add further uncertainty to the retail work force, which is already in flux because of the growth of online shopping. An analysis last year by the World Economic Forum said 30 to 50 percent of the world’s retail jobs could be at risk once technologies like automated checkout were fully embraced. In addition, the efforts have raised concerns among privacy researchers because of the mounds of data that retailers will be able to gather about shopper behavior as they digitize their locations. Inside Amazon Go, for instance, the cameras never lose sight of a customer once he or she enters the shop. Advertisement Retailers had adopted technologies in their stores long before Amazon Go arrived on the scene. Self-checkout kiosks have been common in supermarkets and other stores for years. Kroger, the grocery chain, uses sensors and predictive analytics tools to better anticipate when more cashiers will be needed. Advertisement But the opening of Amazon Go in January was alarming for many retailers, who saw a sudden willingness by Amazon to wield its technology power in new ways. Hundreds of cameras near the ceiling and sensors in the shelves help automatically tally the cookies, chips and soda that shoppers remove and put into their bags. Shoppers’ accounts are charged as they walk out the doors. Amazon is now looking to expand Go to new areas. An Amazon spokeswoman declined to comment on its expansion plans, but the company  has a job posting for a senior real estate manager who will be responsible for “site selection and acquisition” and field tours of “potential locations” for new Go stores. “Unanimously, there was an element of embarrassment because here is an online retailer showing us how to do brick and mortar, and frankly doing it amazingly well,” said Martin Hitch, the chief business officer of Bossa Nova Robotics, a company that makes inventory management robots that Walmart and others are testing. Nowhere are retailers experimenting more avidly with automating store shopping than in China, a country obsessed by new tech fads. One effort is a chain of more than 100 unmanned convenience shops from a start-up called Bingo Box, one of which sits in a business park in Shanghai. Shoppers scan a code on their phones to enter and, once inside, scan the items they want to buy. The store unlocks the exit door after they’ve paid through their phones. Alibaba, one of China’s largest internet companies, has opened 35 of its Hema automated grocery stores, which blend online ordering with automated checkout. Customers scan their groceries at checkout kiosks, using facial recognition to pay electronically, while bags of groceries ordered by customers online float overhead on aerial conveyors, headed to a loading dock for delivery to shoppers. Not to be outdone, JD, another big internet retailer in China, said in December that it had teamed up with a developer to build hundreds of its own unmanned convenience shops. The businesses put readable chips on items to automate the checkout process. Advertisement At its huge campus south of Beijing, JD is testing a new store that relies on computer vision and sensors on the shelves to know when items have been taken. The system tracks shopping without tagging products with chips. Payment, which for now still happens at a kiosk, is done with facial recognition. JD and Alibaba both plan to sell their systems to other retailers and are working on additional checkout technologies. Back in the United States, Walmart, the world’s largest retailer, is testing out the Bossa Nova robots in dozens of its locations to reduce some tedious tasks that can eat up a worker’s time. The robots, which look like giant wheeled luggage bags, roll up and down the aisles looking for shelves where cereal boxes are out of stock and items like toys are mislabeled. The machines then report back to workers, who restock the shelves and apply new labels. At 120 of Walmart’s 4,700 American stores, shoppers can also scan items, including fruits and vegetables, using the camera on their smartphones and pay for them using the devices. When customers walk out, an employee checks their receipts and does a “spot check” of the items they bought. Kroger, one of the country’s largest grocery chains, has also been testing a mobile scanning service in its supermarkets, recently announcing that it would expand it to 400 of its more 2,700 stores. New start-ups are seeking to give retailers the technology to compete with Amazon’s system. One of them, AiFi, is working on cashierless checkout technology that it says will be flexible and affordable enough that mom-and-pop retailers and bigger outlets can use it. In the United States, venture capitalists put $100 million into retail automation start-ups in each of the past two years, up from about $64 million in 2015, according Pitchbook, a financial data firm. “There’s a gold rush feeling about this,” said Alan O’Herlihy, chief executive of Everseen, an Irish company working with retailers on automated checkout technology that uses artificial intelligence. While such technologies could improve the shopping experience, there may also be consequences that people find less desirable. Retailers like Amazon could compile reams of data about where customers spend time inside their doors, comparable to what internet companies already know about their online habits. Advertisement “It’s combined with everything else Amazon might know about you,” said Gennie Gebhart, a researcher at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an online civil liberties organization. “Amazon knows what I buy online, what I watch and now how I move around a space.” In China, there is less public concern about data privacy issues. Many Chinese citizens have become accustomed to high levels of surveillance, including widespread security cameras and government monitoring of online communications. Depending on how heavily retailers automate in the years to come, job losses could be severe in a sector that has already experienced wave after wave of store closings by the likes of Macy’s, Toys “R” Us and Sears. The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Retailers are playing down the threat to jobs. Walmart, the largest private employer in the United States, says that it does not anticipate automation will lead to job losses, but rather that the new technologies are meant to redirect employees to spend more time helping customers find what they need. “We see this as helping our associates,” said John Crecelius, vice president of central operations at Walmart. “We are a people-led business that is technology enabled.” Some traditional retailers are also skeptical about whether the sort of automation in Amazon Go can move to large stores. They say the technology may not work or be cost effective outside a store with a small footprint and inventory. “That’s probably not scalable to a 120,000-square-foot store,” said Chris Hjelm, executive vice president and chief information officer at Kroger. But he said it was just a matter of time before more cameras and sensors were commonplace in stores. “It’s a few years out,” he said, “before that technology becomes mainstream.” Nick Wingfield reported from Seattle, Paul Mozur from Shanghai, and Michael Corkery from New York. A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Retail Races to Automate.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 9:50 P.M. E.D.T.
 By Lawrence Hurley The U.S. government's Supreme Court battle with Microsoft Corp over whether technology companies can be forced to hand over data stored overseas could be nearing its end, after federal prosecutors asked that the case be dismissed. President Donald Trump on March 22 signed a provision into law making it clear that U.S. judges can issue warrants for such data, while giving companies an avenue to object if the request conflicts with foreign law. "This case is now moot," the U.S. Department of Justice said, citing the newly passed legislation, in a 16-page court filing on Friday that requested the dismissal. The Supreme Court on Feb. 27 heard arguments in the case, which had been one of the most closely watched of the high court's current term. Some justices urged Congress to pass a law to resolve the matter. Advertisement Microsoft and the Justice Department had been locked in a dispute over how U.S. prosecutors seek access to data held on overseas computer servers owned by American companies. The case involved Microsoft's challenge to a domestic warrant issued by a U.S. judge for emails stored on a Microsoft server in Dublin relating to a drug-trafficking investigation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The bipartisan new law, known as the Cloud Act, was supported by Microsoft, other major technology companies and the Trump administration. But civil liberties groups opposed it, saying it lacked sufficient privacy protections. Advertisement Microsoft, which has 100 data centers in 40 countries, was the first American company to challenge a domestic search warrant seeking data held outside the United States. The Microsoft customer whose emails were sought told the company he was based in Ireland when he signed up for his account. A representative for Microsoft did not immediately return requests for comment on the Justice Department's filing. (Reporting by Lawrence Hurley and Alex Dobuzinskis; Additional reporting by Dustin Volz; Editing by Will Dunham and Jonathan Oatis) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Editorial By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the op-ed section. As recently as 2010, Mark Zuckerberg, the founder and chief executive of Facebook, believed that privacy was no longer a “social norm.” But over the past few weeks — and not a moment too soon — he and his colleagues have learned that privacy still matters to individuals and society. Revelations about how Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm that worked for Donald Trump’s campaign, amassed data about more than 50 million Facebook users without their consent has forced the social media company to tell anyone who will listen that it takes privacy very seriously. Last week, Facebook said it was simplifying and centralizing privacy settings, making it easier for its more than two billion users to change how much personal information they share. That was an important and necessary change, but what we have learned about the data collection practices of social media firms, advertisers, political campaigns, online publishers and other groups suggests that company-specific changes like Facebook’s will be insufficient. What is needed is for Congress to adopt rigorous and comprehensive privacy laws. The technology and advertising industries have long resisted such rules, and neither this Congress nor the Trump administration has shown any interest in privacy. But someday new politicians will be in charge, and now is as good a time as any to begin a serious examination of how American privacy regulations can be strengthened. There’s no need to start from scratch. In 2012, President Barack Obama proposed a privacy bill of rights that included many ideas for giving people more control over their information, making data collection more transparent and putting limits on what business can do with the information they collect. The bill of rights fizzled out when Congress showed little appetite for it. But the European Union has used a similar approach in developing its General Data Protection Regulation, which goes into effect on May 25. The new European rules are not perfect — they include the so-called right to be forgotten, which allows people to ask companies to delete personal information that they no longer wish to share. That could be implemented in ways that limit free speech. But the Europeans have made progress toward addressing some of the problems that have recently been highlighted in the United States. For instance, their laws require companies to seek consent before collecting sensitive personal information, to make the request understandable, and to give users an easy way to opt in to sharing such data, rather than forcing them to opt out if they don’t want to be tracked. Further, companies that want to collect data about Europeans will have to be upfront about how they use personal data, and they cannot collect more information than they need to provide the services they are offering. The Obama bill of rights included a similar concept, saying that personal information should only be used in “ways that are consistent with the context in which consumers provide the data.” Today, it is standard procedure for many companies to vacuum up as much data as they can by getting users to agree to long, impenetrable terms of service. Companies might not even know how they will use the information being collected but collect it anyway, in case they later develop a specific use for it. Recently, some Facebook users discovered that the company’s Android app had been logging metadata from every incoming and outgoing phone call and text message, in some cases for years. The company said that users had consented to sharing this information and that doing so “helps you find and stay connected with the people you care about, and provides you with a better experience across Facebook.” That statement is positively Orwellian. It’s hard to believe that many people would have given the company access to so much personal data if they actually understood what they were agreeing to. The new European regulation will also let people access their own data, transfer their information from one business to others that provide a similar service and delete it altogether under certain circumstances. Companies will have to notify customers within 72 hours if they become aware of a breach of personal information. Many businesses will struggle to comply with the European Union’s new rules, and officials in member countries will have a hard time enforcing it consistently. “We will have a learning curve,” said Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, who heads France’s privacy regulator, the Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés. “We will have to adjust.” But it is increasingly clear that businesses will figure out how to live with and make money under tougher privacy rules. Some companies are also planning to apply some or all of the data protection requirements to all of their customers, not just Europeans. And other countries have or are considering adopting similar rules. Throughout history, meatpackers, credit card companies, automakers and other businesses resisted regulations, arguing they would be ruined by them. Yet, regulations have actually benefited many industries by boosting demand for products that consumers know meet certain standards. Facebook and other internet companies fear privacy regulations, but they ought not to. Strong rules could be good for them as well as for consumers. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By BROOKS BARNESAPRIL 1, 2018
 LOS ANGELES — Charles H. Rivkin began his Hollywood career in 1988, when Jim Henson hired him to plot a business future for Kermit the Frog. Mr. Henson’s unexpected death two years later threw the Muppets into crisis. But Mr. Rivkin pushed the little puppet studio toward the booming cable and DVD businesses, ultimately engineering its sale for $680 million in 2000 — $1 billion in today’s dollars. A hairpin turn into politics awaited. Mr. Rivkin — polished, almost preternaturally so — became a mega-fund-raiser for the soon-to-be-president, Barack Obama, who named him ambassador to France in 2009. After a celebrated run in Paris, where he was the youngest American envoy since the Eisenhower administration, Mr. Rivkin became an assistant secretary of state. And now Mr. Rivkin, 55, finds himself trying to meld both of those lives — Hollywood insider and Washington influencer — as chairman of the musty Motion Picture Association of America, which runs the byzantine movie rating system and lobbies around the world for the six old-line Hollywood studios (20th Century Fox, Universal, Warner Bros., Disney, Sony and Paramount). He officially took over the organization on Jan. 1, replacing Christopher J. Dodd, the former longtime Democratic senator of Connecticut. Advertisement Depending on your perspective — and whether or not you see opportunity in upheaval — Mr. Rivkin’s timing either is perfect or couldn’t be worse. Advertisement There is little doubt about his point of view. Over dinner with a reporter at Bouchon Beverly Hills, he was in such a good mood about returning to moviedom that he broke into song as Gonzo, rasping out a couple of lines from “I’m Going to Go Back There Someday,” a song from “The Muppet Movie.” Mr. Rivkin then merrily downed an oyster, pinkie in the air, and called his new position “possibly the best job in the world.” But Hollywood has changed immensely in the time he has been away. Attendance at theaters in the United States and Canada dropped 6 percent in 2017, to a 22-year low. Yet studios are more reliant than ever on the box office. Squeezed by the rise of subscription streaming services like Netflix, the six major studios reported an 18 percent drop in home-video rental and sales revenue, including video-on-demand purchases, in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the 2016 period. Digital TV Research, a British media consultancy, estimated in October that piracy would cost the global movie and television business $37.4 billion in lost revenue this year, an 18 percent increase from 2017. Losses in 2022 were projected to reach $51.6 billion. To cope with these challenges and others, Hollywood is consolidating. Disney will soon absorb Fox. AT&T is fighting the Justice Department in court for the right to acquire Time Warner, which owns Warner Bros. As Amazon, Netflix and even Apple pour resources into original content, more consolidation is expected. Mergers could lead to budget cuts for the nonprofit Motion Picture Association. Under the current setup, the six member studios chip in more than $16 million apiece annually to fund the association’s global operations, according to tax filings. The organization, which endured a 20 percent budget cut in 2009 as the studios dealt with the Great Recession, also faces challenges in Washington. Its influence has diminished over the past decade: Silicon Valley stars reign supreme now. “I do not think we have punched our weight in terms of influence — the power that we should have, given the jobs we support,” said Jeff Shell, chairman of the Universal Filmed Entertainment Group, which includes Universal Pictures, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features. Mr. Shell added that the M.P.A.A. is “a big, complicated organization and needs an executive to go in and rethink every part as a business — what should be invested in and grown, what should be scaled back.” Advertisement And Mr. Rivkin, who hails from a storied Democratic family (his godfather, Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, wrote a note on a napkin to excuse him from school so that he could attend the party’s 1968 national convention), inherits the M.P.A.A. during a culture war. Hollywood personalities — Meryl Streep, Jimmy Kimmel, Kathy Griffin, among others — have attacked President Trump, who has been happy to return fire. Many studio executives, while publicly silent, privately worry that Mr. Trump’s position on trade, in particular his aggressive stance toward China, will hurt their profitability. China is fast eclipsing North America as the world’s No. 1 movie market, and studios have been trying to persuade the Chinese government to relax restrictions on film imports. The Office of the United States Trade Representative is leading those negotiations, but Mr. Rivkin also plays a role. As the association’s chief, he is effectively Hollywood’s global ambassador and its chief Washington crusader. (He does not, however, plan to register as a lobbyist; for that role, Mr. Rivkin hired Gail MacKinnon, a former Time Warner executive who started her career working for Republican lawmakers.)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mr. Rivkin acknowledged that the organization faces challenges big and small, including questions about its identity and its structure. Netflix plans to release 80 original movies this year but is not a member. Should it be? But he spoke about solutions with a confidence that felt genuine, calling the association “a dust-covered diamond that can easily shine again.” He then began an impassioned recitation of industry data. Did you know, for instance, that more Americans go to the movies than attend professional football, basketball, baseball and hockey games combined? Mr. Rivkin also spoke excitedly about plans, some already in motion, to increase the trade organization’s profile, including improved branding, more star-studded events in Washington and livelier social media feeds. “Reinvigorated at every level,” he said of the association. At the same time, Mr. Rivkin aggressively disputed the notion that Mr. Trump and Hollywood are on opposite sides. “President Trump probably knows this industry better than any president since Reagan,” he said. “I think he understands that entertainment is important both as an economic force — jobs in every single state — and as a projection of American values. It’s our soft power. It’s showing the world what America is capable of.” The film and television industries support 2.1 million jobs in the United States, contribute $134 billion to the economy and account for $16.5 billion in exports, according to Motion Picture Association data. Hollywood has struggled to cast the right person as its cheerleader in chief since 2004, when Jack Valenti retired after 38 years. Mr. Valenti, who worked in the White House for Lyndon B. Johnson, was larger than life. He picked fights, lionized the studio chiefs and fended off lawmakers’ efforts to limit sex and violence on screen by devising the self-regulating film ratings system. Advertisement Mr. Valenti was followed by an entertainment outsider, Dan Glickman, secretary of agriculture during the Clinton administration. Mr. Glickman, affable but low key, scored victories, including securing $400 million in government production incentives. But Hollywood never accepted him as one of its own. He left in 2010. Mr. Dodd took over the next year. While making inroads on piracy, he also struggled at times to persuade the six studios to speak with one clear voice on crucial industry matters, including the 2014 cyberattack on Sony Pictures. Michael Lynton, then Sony’s chief, was so furious over the organization’s lack of public support during the early days of that crisis that he almost canceled Sony’s membership. Herding studio chiefs is harder than it used to be. In Mr. Valenti’s era, the film factories were stand-alone entities whose interests were in lock step. Today, the studios are owned by sprawling conglomerates, which employ their own lobbyists and often have competing interests. Mr. Rivkin, who has been married to the businesswoman Susan Tolson for 28 years (they have two children), has deep political relationships, some of which involve family. His father, William R. Rivkin, who was close to the Kennedys, served as ambassador to Luxembourg, Senegal and Gambia. His brother, Robert, is Chicago’s deputy mayor. Mr. Rivkin worked at the State Department under John Kerry, a close friend. At the same time, unlike his two most recent predecessors, Mr. Rivkin knows Hollywood. At the Henson Company, he forged agreements with partners like Sony and Disney. After the Henson Company was sold, he led another boutique studio, WildBrain, where he oversaw production of the hit Nickelodeon series “Yo Gabba Gabba!” One of Mr. Rivkin’s cousins, the Democratic fund-raiser and education advocate Jamie Alter Lynton, is married to Mr. Lynton, the former Sony chief. Despite moving in rather grand circles, Mr. Rivkin does not wear his ego on his sleeve, say people who know him well. “Charlie was always the Dudley Do-Right of the kids business,” said Brown Johnson, Nickelodeon’s former president of animation, referring to the heroic “Rocky and Bullwinkle Show” character. “So honest. So respectful. A listener.” Brian Henson, chairman of the Henson Company and Jim Henson’s son, agreed — with a twist. “I think that putting his ego aside actually is part of his ego,” he said. “Charlie wants to be the guy who makes things happen for others.” A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Hollywood’s Envoy, Schooled In Diplomacy (and Muppets).  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Tom Wheeler Mr. Wheeler is a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. “We have a responsibility to protect your information,” Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, declared recently in a full-page newspaper advertisement. “If we can’t, we don’t deserve it.” It is nice to see Facebook taking some responsibility for the exploitation of the personal information of 50 million of its users in the service of a political campaign. But Mr. Zuckerberg’s comments suggest he still doesn’t get it: What matters is not whether internet companies “deserve” our private information but why we as consumers do not have meaningful ways to protect that data from being siphoned for sale in the first place. The American government has done little to help us in this regard. The Federal Trade Commission merely requires internet companies to have a privacy policy available for consumers to see. A company can change that policy whenever it wants as long as it says it is doing so. As a result, internet companies have been taking our personal property — our private information — while hiding this fact behind lengthy and coercive legalese and cumbersome “opt out” processes. The European Union, however, is handling the problem differently. Starting in May, its General Data Protection Regulation will go into effect in its 28 member nations. The regulation is powerful in its simplicity: It ensures that consumers own their private information and thus have the right to control its usage and that internet companies have an obligation to give consumers the tools to exercise that control. The European rules, for instance, require companies to provide a plain-language description of their information-gathering practices, including how the data is used, as well as have users explicitly “opt in” to having their information collected. The rules also give consumers the right to see what information about them is being held, and the ability to have that information erased. Why don’t we have similar protections in the United States? We almost did. In 2016, the Federal Communications Commission imposed similar requirements on the companies that provide internet service, forcing them to offer an explicit “opt in” for having personal data collected, and to protect the information that was collected. This didn’t last. Internet service providers like Comcast and AT&T and companies that use their connections, like Facebook and Google, lobbied members of Congress. Congress passed a law this year, signed by President Trump, that not only repealed the protections but also prohibited the F.C.C. from ever again imposing such safeguards. The same coalition of corporate interests succeeded in discouraging California from passing a state privacy law similar to the 2016 F.C.C. requirements. Fortunately, the European Union’s law should indirectly help Americans somewhat. In only a few weeks, Facebook, Google and all the other internet companies that collect our private information will have to allow European customers the protections these companies have fought to deny Americans. In an interconnected world where digital code doesn’t respect the geographical or national borders, this will surely have a positive global impact. Internet companies are preparing for a future in which regardless of where a website is based, if it is visited by even a single European Union citizen and if it seeks to collect that person’s data, it must provide that person the protections of the General Data Protection Regulation. Hopefully, this experience will show these companies that protecting privacy is simply the responsible thing to do, not the end of their business. The United States government has a lot of explaining to do. Why is it that American internet companies such as Facebook and Google are required to provide privacy protections when doing business with European consumers but are free to not provide such protections for Americans? Why is it that Americans’ best privacy hope is the secondary effect of interconnected networks rather than privacy protections designed for Americans? Why shouldn’t Americans also be given meaningful tools to protect their privacy? Congress is now considering bipartisan legislation that responds to the problem of Russian targeted political advertising on social media by adding the requirement, long applied to broadcast advertising, that those websites disclose who is paying for their advertisements. But as well intentioned as that step may be, it addresses only a symptom of the problem of the extensive surveillance of Americans, not the root of the problem. The New World must learn from the Old World. The internet economy has made our personal data a corporate commodity. The United States government must return control of that information to its owners. Tom Wheeler, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 2013 to 2017, is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution and a fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 4:35 P.M. E.D.T.
 In a story April 1 about the Trump administration's treatment of skilled immigrants, The Associated Press reported erroneously that the administration ended a program to admit foreign entrepreneurs. A judge ruled in December that the program must take effect, though the administration has not approved any applications and says it will rescind the program. A corrected version of the story is below: Trump says he wants skilled migrants but creates new hurdles Trump wants the US immigration system to focus on skills instead of family ties, but his administration is making it harder on skilled immigrants By NICHOLAS RICCARDI Associated Press It may be a while before President Donald Trump gets another chance at creating a new, "merit-based" immigration system, a keystone of his four-part plan that Congress rejected last month. In the meantime, his administration is busy making it harder, not easier, for skilled migrants to come work in the United States. The administration says it will end an Obama-era program to admit foreign entrepreneurs who want to start companies in the United States. It is more aggressively scrutinizing visas to skilled workers from other countries. And it is contemplating ending a provision that allows spouses of those skilled workers to be employed in the U.S. Advertisement The administration and its backers contend it's trying to fix flaws in the existing, employer-centric skilled immigration system while advocating for a complete overhaul of America's immigration system. Advertisement "The stuff that they're actually doing is not so much restricting skilled immigration as enforcing the law," said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports reducing immigration. "They're rolling back some of the extralegal measures that other administrations have taken." A primary avenue for skilled immigrants to enter the United States is the H1B visa for specialty workers, which is heavily used by the technology industry. About 85,000 visas are issued annually in a lottery system. Some critics argue they are a way for companies to avoid hiring U.S. citizens; Trump himself has said H1B recipients shouldn't even be considered skilled. In 2016, two technology workers sued Disney, alleging 250 U.S. employees were laid off and many were forced to train replacements who were hired on H1B visas. A federal judge dismissed the lawsuit, saying Disney was following existing immigration laws. The Trump administration has increased its scrutiny of H1B applications, requiring renewals be submitted in person and asking for additional proof the workers are needed and are being paid top tier. "This increase reflects our commitment to protecting the integrity of the immigration system," said Joanne Fereirra, a spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. She added that 92.5 percent of the visas are still approved, only two percentage points lower than under the Obama administration in 2016. Still, businesses have noticed a change. "We've got employees that are going through the process, who have gone through such a level of scrutiny and interrogatory that is unprecedented," said Dean Garfield, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, which advocates for H1B visas and has had one of its own workers have to move back overseas because of delays in approving the requisite visa. The extra time with H1B visas is only part of the administration's changes to skilled, work-based immigration.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Last year, Trump signed an executive order that directed all government agencies to "rigorously enforce and administer the laws governing entry into the United States of workers from abroad" to ensure the maximum number of U.S. citizens have jobs. The order also called for shifting H1Bs from lower-paid workers to higher-paid ones who truly have skills that can't be obtained from the native workforce. Advertisement The administration also moved to stop an Obama administration program that was about to start last year to let international entrepreneurs who start companies in the United States live in the country for renewable, 30-month stints. Though a judge in December blocked the government's effort prevent the program from taking effect, the Trump administration says it has not approved any of the about 10 entries it has received and still plans to end the program. Also in December, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security released its new regulatory agenda which included further, unspecified changes to the H1B program. The administration also indicated it will roll back the STEM OPT program expanded by President Barack Obama that lets international science and technology students work legally in the U.S. for up to three years. Meanwhile, the State Department said last week it is seeking to further enhance vetting of potential immigrants and visitors by requiring all U.S. visa applicants to submit their social media usernames, previous email addresses and phone numbers — information that was previously sought only from applicants identified for extra scrutiny. The department estimates 710,000 immigrant visa applicants and 14 million non-immigrant visa applicants will be affected annually. Akash Negi, 26, graduated last month with a master's in sciences and analytics from Pennsylvania's Harrisburg University of Science and Technology that he earned while working as a big data analyst at JP Morgan Chase. Negi moved to the United States after his father got a diplomatic visa as part of a job at the United Nations, but his legal residency doesn't include a work permit. He was able to work while a student but is waiting for his STEM OPT visa to remain employed, and is concerned Trump will gut the program. Negi noted he understands Trump's stated goals of protecting U.S. workers but says he's going about it incorrectly. "Any country wants to protect its own citizens, but you don't just end the program when you don't have your own population trained," Negi said. The Trump administration has also signaled it may end another Obama-era program that allowed spouses of H1B visa holders to work legally in the U.S. Many of these people have been in the U.S. for years, sometimes long enough to have children who are now U.S. citizens, yet can face a decades-long wait for a green card. The prospect of being unable to work is a shock to them. "I would like to make my own living. I am qualified and skilled," said Anushri Maru, 35, a business analyst in Houston, adding she's baffled her new home doesn't want her talents. "I'm not sure they understand that we are skilled immigrants." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By KAREN ZRAICK and BRENT MURRAYAPRIL 1, 2018
 Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. “No amount of kindness or compassion alone would have changed the person that Nikolas Cruz is and was, or the horrendous actions he perpetrated. That is a weak excuse for the failures of our school system, our government and our gun laws.” Among our best-read articles this week was an Op-Ed written by Isabelle Robinson, a senior from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. She wrote the piece because she was disturbed by the notion that the shooting might have been prevented if Mr. Cruz’s classmates were nicer to him. Above, a memorial outside the school after the attack. John Paul Stevens, the retired Supreme Court justice, also wrote a well-read Op-Ed on guns. He labeled the Second Amendment “a relic” and called for its repeal. Did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. Here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, and our crossword puzzles. Advertisement ____ 2. President Trump’s advisers are urging tougher policies on Russia after a week of mass expulsions of diplomats. But Mr. Trump has refused to embrace a tough public posture, and remains uncertain how far to authorize his administration to go. Above, the American Embassy in Moscow. Advertisement Meanwhile, turnover continued in his administration with the departure of Hope Hicks, the communications director, and David Shulkin, the secretary for veterans affairs. Here’s our running tally. And here’s a roundup of the five biggest stories in politics this week, including the uproar over a citizenship question on the census. ____ 3. In Ohio, President Trump visited a training center for union workers to promote his infrastructure plan. But he diverted to other topics, saying he might delay a trade deal with South Korea — and promising to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria. Above, American service members near Manbij. Two members of the U.S.-led coalition fighting there were killed this week — one American soldier and one British. Mr. Trump ordered the State Department to suspend more than $200 million in funds for stabilization and humanitarian aid, as the administration reassesses its role in the conflict. Idlib Province, the largest remaining rebel-held enclave in Syria, has been flooded with refugees from other areas. As the government wraps up a blistering military campaign in the eastern Ghouta suburbs of Damascus, Idlib is likely to be the next target, and civilians there are trapped. ____ 4. The Israeli military killed 15 Palestinians in confrontations on the border with Gaza. Tens of thousands of Gazans had gathered for what was billed as a peaceful demonstration against Israel’s longstanding blockade and in support of their right to return to their homes in what is now Israel. Gaza’s economy is collapsing and residents — most of whom are refugees or their descendants — face intense restrictions on the movement of goods and people in and out of the territory. Advertisement The Israelis said that some demonstrators hurled stones, firebombs and burning tires, and that two gunmen fired at them. They responded with tear gas and gunfire. Some 1,000 people were injured. ____ 5. Stephon Clark, the unarmed man killed by the Sacramento police in his grandmother’s backyard last month, was shot eight times from behind, according to a private autopsy. Above, an image from police footage of the shooting. Protesters in California’s capital have taken to the streets nearly every day since Mr. Clark’s death, demanding that the city’s leadership fire the two officers involved. An activist at a rally outside the city on Saturday was struck by a Sheriff’s Department vehicle and was treated for minor injuries. And the police in Baton Rouge, La., fired the officer who shot Alton Sterling in 2016. The department released new footage of the killing that shows the officer shouting profanities at Mr. Sterling, slamming him into a car and threatening to shoot him in the head. ____ 6. The acquittal by a federal jury of Noor Salman, the widow of the man who gunned down dozens of people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando two years ago, handed federal prosecutors on Friday the rarest of defeats: a loss in a terrorism case. Jurors unanimously rejected government charges that Ms. Salman had helped her husband plan his violent assault in the name of the Islamic State. After our recent coverage of the bombings in Austin, Tex., some readers took issue with our reporting, asking why we didn’t label him a terrorist. Some of our editors and reporters addressed those questions here. ____ 7. We took a look at recent patent applications filed by Amazon and Google. (Above, Amazon’s Alexa Super Bowl ad.) Advertisement Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used and are years from even being possible. But the recent filings offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. For example, a device could start analyzing speech when it hears “love,” “bought” or “dislike” and then send out targeted ads based on that information. ____ 8. Our critic writes that the clock is ticking on the overdue International African American Museum in Charleston, S.C. Above, a rendering. But will $11 million be found to fully fund it? And the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is Wednesday. As we sorted through historical photographs for our coverage, we encountered many people, particularly women and children, who had gone unnamed. Now we want to know: Who were they? We’re hoping you might be able to help us. ____ 9. Tax Day is approaching. The deadline to file is April 17. Our personal finance experts say it’s also an excellent time to give yourself a financial tuneup. They’ve created a weeklong program that walks you through some of the simplest financial tasks you can do to tidy your finances, optimize your spending and make sure you are planning appropriately for the long term. ____ 10. Why are Catholic colleges so good at basketball? While theological explanations are tempting, there is more than just something in the holy water. Our college sports reporter explains. Advertisement One of those colleges is Loyola-Chicago, whose fans, above, cheered its long-shot run to the N.C.A.A. tournament’s Final Four. The team lost to Michigan, which will face Villanova in the championship game Monday night. ____ 11. Finally, competing bunnies were beaten by a cat in the race to No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list for children’s picture books. The bunnies are both named Marlon Bundo. (One was created by the vice president’s daughter, and the other by the staff of “Last Week Tonight With John Oliver.”) They were overtaken by “Pete the Cat: Big Easter Adventure.” On that note, if you’re looking for last-minute Easter recipes, we’ve got you covered. Above, homemade Peeps, also known as saffron honey marshmallows. We also have a wide array of recipes for the Passover table. Up for some more reading? Try this collection of our best weekend reads, which includes our coverage of the “Roseanne” reboot, Sean Penn’s literary adventures and a bittersweet return to Puerto Rico. Have a great week. ____ Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern. You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 5:38 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON/IXTEPEC, Mexico —  President Donald Trump said on Sunday that there will be no deal to legalize the status of young adult immigrants called Dreamers and he said the U.S.-Mexico border is becoming more dangerous. After tweeting a "Happy Easter" message on Twitter, he said: "Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous. "'Caravans' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!" he wrote, adding a threat to kill the North American Free Trade Agreement which is being renegotiated with Mexico and Canada. DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, is a program created in 2012 under Democratic former President Barack Obama that Trump sought to rescind last autumn. Advertisement Designed for people brought to the United States as children by parents who were undocumented immigrants, the program shielded them from deportation and gave them work permits. Advertisement Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats who want to protect DACA in exchange for funding to build a U.S.-Mexico border wall, a campaign trail promise. He insisted during his 2016 White House run that Mexico would pay for the wall, something the Mexican government has repeatedly rejected. Mexico's presidential front-runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, launched his campaign close to the border on Sunday demanding respect for Mexicans and signaling he may take a harder line toward Trump if he wins the July 1 election. "Mexico and its people will not be the piñata of any foreign government," Lopez Obrador said in a speech in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, which borders El Paso, Texas.  "It's not with walls or use of force that you resolve social problems." Whether Trump will stick to his guns on DACA is unclear. Trump last month threatened to veto a spending bill because it did not address the fate of Dreamers and did not fully fund his border wall but he ultimately signed the bill. In the months after Trump took office, apprehensions of illegal crossers along the U.S.- Mexico border dropped from more than 42,400 arrests in January 2017 to a low of around 15,700 in April, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection data. Since then, the number of arrests has risen and in the first months of 2018 was above Obama administration levels. "Mexico has got to help us at the border," the president, who is spending Easter at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, told reporters on his way into an Easter church service. "A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA. They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it." Advertisement MIGRANT CARAVAN Trump's DACA tweets came after a report on the Fox New Channel's Fox & Friends program, one of his favorites, that a "caravan" of mostly Honduran migrants was crossing Mexico and headed to the United States, "either illegally or by asking for asylum."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. More than 1,000 would-be migrants have passed through Mexico's southern states of Chiapas and Oaxaca in recent days in a so-called "refugee caravan" organized by U.S.-based immigrant advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras. In the town of Ixtepec, more than 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala waited in a sweltering warehouse on Saturday, mattresses rolled and bags packed, as local authorities and immigration officials from Mexico's federal government organized 15 buses to take them to their next stop on the long journey north. By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States. Gina Garibo, a member of Pueblo Sin Fronteras traveling with the migrants, said the group would hold a meeting to discuss Trump's statements on Sunday and stressed that the caravan's aim was to protect vulnerable people. "The main people here are fleeing criminal violence, political violence, in their country and this allows us to save lives," she said in response to Trump's comments. A guest on Sunday's Fox & Friends show, Brandon Judd, head of the National Border Patrol Council union, said illegal immigrants benefit from the "catch and release" program that Trump referenced in his tweet. Under it, they can be freed while awaiting court hearings if detained in the United States. If recent border crossers do not claim asylum, they can usually be deported quickly. But if they say they fear targeted violence or persecution in their home countries, they can begin the long process of petitioning for asylum in immigration court. Trump said on Twitter on Sunday that Mexico is doing "very little, if not NOTHING," to stop the flow of people across the southern border. "They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" Advertisement Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said the United States and Mexico work together on migration every day. "An inaccurate news report should not serve to question this strong cooperation. Upholding human dignity and rights is not at odds with the rule of law. Happy Easter," he said in a tweet. Mexico deported some 80,000 people in 2017, down from about 160,000 in 2016, official statistics show. The vast majority were from Central American nations. The drop reflects fewer Central Americans crossing the country last year. (Reporting by Valerie Volcovici in Washington and Delphine Schrank in Ixtepec, Mexico; Additional reporting by by Steve Holland in West Palm Beach, Mica Rosenberg in New York, David Lawder in Washington and Lizbeth Diaz in Ciudad Juarez; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Daniel Wallis) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 10:11 P.M. E.D.T.
 SEOUL —  South Korean exports grew less than expected in March, adding to worries about the outlook for global demand amid growing fears of a U.S-China trade war and a resurgence in protectionism. Booming demand for South Korean memory chips and computers across China and Europe lifted March exports, while shipments to the United States fell amid rising U.S. protectionism, resulting in a smaller trade surplus with Washington. March exports grew 6.1 percent to $51.6 billion from a year earlier, below 7.5 percent seen in a Reuters survey but outperforming a revised 3.9 percent expansion in February, government data showed on Sunday. Imports increased 5 percent to $44.7 billion, less than the 6.2 percent growth economists had expected and compared with a revised 14.9 percent in February. Advertisement That resulted in a trade surplus of $6.9 billion, up from $3.2 billion in the previous month. The soft February readings were likely skewed by the long Lunar New Year holiday which fell in the middle of the month this year but in late January last year. Advertisement Exports grew 10.3 percent in January-March combined from a year earlier, slower than the 14.6 percent expansion seen during the same period in 2017. "Exports growth is steady, it's likely to continue to post single-digit expansion. But there's dangers of a global trade war, a downside risk to Korea exports," said Park Sang-hyun, a Seoul-based economist at HI Investment & Securities. Shipments to the United States declined 1 percent in the first 20 days of March from a year earlier even as Korean memory chips sold well, as American demand for South Korean cars were sluggish. Exports to China and the European Union jumped 16.6 percent and 24.2 percent, respectively. South Korea's trade surplus with the United States stood at $1.05 billion as of March this year, down by about 41.5 percent from the same time last year amid ongoing efforts by Seoul to import more from the United States in the past year.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Korea's trade ministry data shows that a drop in car exports combined with a steady increase in imports of U.S. beef, oranges and aircraft engines have resulted in a decline in the trade surplus with the United States. The Bank of Korea expects the trade-reliant economy to expand by 3 percent this year after 3.1 percent growth in 2017, the fastest expansion since it grew 3.3 percent in 2014. However, policymakers are wary of risks to exports as the Trump administration begins rolling out a series of punitive trade measures which would hit countries such as South Korea and its biggest trading partner, China. The United States and South Korea agreed last week to revise their six-year-old free trade agreement with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation by Seoul and give more access for U.S. automakers and drugmakers to the South Korean market. Advertisement The deal also lifted the threat of a 25 percent U.S. tariff on imports of steel from South Korea in exchange for quotas that will effectively cut U.S. imports of Korean steel by about 30 percent. Without the agreement in place, the tariffs would take effect on May 1. But President Donald Trump said on Thursday he may hold up the trade agreement reached with South Korea until after a deal is finalised with North Korea on denuclearization, increasing uncertainties for the trade outlook. (Reporting by Cynthia Kim; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By BEN SISARIO and GRAHAM BOWLEYAPRIL 1, 2018
 In 2010, when the Justice Department allowed the two most dominant companies in the live music business — Live Nation and Ticketmaster — to merge, many greeted the news with dread. Live Nation was already the world’s biggest concert promoter. Ticketmaster had for years been the leading ticket provider. Critics warned that the merger would create an industry monolith, one capable of crippling competitors in the ticketing business. Federal officials tried to reassure the skeptics. They pointed to a consent decree, or legal settlement, they had negotiated as part of the merger approval. Its terms were strict, they said: It would boost competition and block monopolistic behavior by the new, larger Live Nation. “There will be enough air and sunlight in this space for strong competitors to take root, grow and thrive,” said the country’s top antitrust regulator, Assistant Attorney General Christine A. Varney. And she went further, suggesting that reduced ticket service fees, even lower ticket prices, might be on the horizon. Advertisement Eight years after the merger, the ticketing business is still dominated by Live Nation and its operations extend into nearly every aspect of the concert world. Ticket prices are at record highs. Service fees are far from reduced. And Ticketmaster, part of the Live Nation empire, still tickets 80 of the top 100 arenas in the country. No other company has more than a handful. No competitor has risen to challenge its pre-eminence. Now Department of Justice officials are looking into serious accusations about Live Nation’s behavior in the marketplace. Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. They have been reviewing complaints that Live Nation, which manages 500 artists, including U2 and Miley Cyrus, has used its control over concert tours to pressure venues into contracting with its subsidiary, Ticketmaster. The company’s chief competitor, AEG, has told the officials that venues it manages that serve Atlanta; Las Vegas; Minneapolis; Salt Lake City; Louisville, Ky.; and Oakland, Calif., were told they would lose valuable shows if Ticketmaster was not used as a vendor, a possible violation of antitrust law. Top 100 U.S. Concert Arenas TICKETED BY TICKETMASTER By 2016 total tickets sold 0 250,000 500,000 750,000 1 million TICKETS SOLD TOP 10 1. Madison Sq. Garden  NEW YORK 1,053,675 2. Barclays Center  BROOKLYN 757,141 3. Forum  INGLEWOOD, CA. 701,601 4. American Airlines Arena  MIAMI 627,026 5. Bridgestone Arena  NASHVILLE 591,954 6. Oracle Arena  OAKLAND 577,090 7. Staples Center  LOS ANGELES 574,048 8. Prudential Center  NEWARK 515,143 9. Verizon Center  WASHINGTON, D.C. 509,473 10. Allstate Arena  ROSEMONT, ILL. 494,843 Top 100 U.S. Concert Arenas TICKETED BY TICKETMASTER By 2016 total tickets sold 0 250,000 500,000 750,000 1 million TICKETS SOLD TOP 10 1. Madison Sq. Garden  NEW YORK 1,053,675 2. Barclays Center  BROOKLYN 757,141 3. Forum  INGLEWOOD, CA. 701,601 4. American Airlines Arena  MIAMI 627,026 5. Bridgestone Arena  NASHVILLE 591,954 6. Oracle Arena  OAKLAND 577,090 7. Staples Center  LOS ANGELES 574,048 8. Prudential Center  NEWARK 515,143 9. Verizon Center  WASHINGTON, D.C. 509,473 10. Allstate Arena  ROSEMONT, ILL. 494,843 Top 100 U.S. Concert Arenas TICKETED BY TICKETMASTER By 2016 total tickets sold 0 250,000 500,000 750,000 1 million TOP 10 TICKETS SOLD TOP 10 1. Madison Sq. Garden  NEW YORK 1,053,675 2. Barclays Center  BROOKLYN 757,141 3. Forum  INGLEWOOD, CA. 701,601 4. American Airlines Arena  MIAMI 627,026 5. Bridgestone Arena  NASHVILLE 591,954 6. Oracle Arena  OAKLAND 577,090 7. Staples Center  LOS ANGELES 574,048 8. Prudential Center  NEWARK 515,143 9. Verizon Center  WASHINGTON, D.C. 509,473 10. Allstate Arena  ROSEMONT, ILL. 494,843 APRIL 1, 2018
 In the Atlanta case, the complaint stems from a 2013 tour by the band Matchbox Twenty. Live Nation bypassed the Gwinnett Center, a popular arena outside the city, for another venue in town. Advertisement Gwinnett’s booking director, Dan Markham, worried his venue was being punished, according to emails he wrote at the time. The center had just replaced Ticketmaster with a service controlled by AEG. “Don’t abandon Gwinnett,” he wrote to a Live Nation talent coordinator. “If there’s an issue or issues let’s address.” “Issue?” the Live Nation coordinator wrote back. “Three letters. Can you guess what they are?” Live Nation says that, no matter what its employee wrote, the decision to bypass the center was not punitive. The other venue was managed by Live Nation and simply fit more people. But the following year, Live Nation cut the number of tours it brought to Gwinnett in half, from four to two. Live Nation described the drop as a routine fluctuation. But Mr. Markham later said in an email that he had expected the drop-off because Live Nation “warned us that they would put us in a literal boycott.” AEG provided The New York Times with copies of those emails, and others, to support its account of threats. “What happened in Atlanta is just one example of what has been occurring much more broadly,” said Ted Fikre, the chief legal officer for AEG. Live Nation officials say they never threaten or retaliate. They dismissed the complaints as tactical, deliberate mischaracterizations by AEG. Advertisement “You have a disgruntled competitor that is trying to explain their loss around the boogeyman that there were threats made that nobody can document,” said Daniel M. Wall, Live Nation’s antitrust lawyer. The bloodletting between Live Nation and AEG has grown fierce in recent years and rippled through the industry. Last month, another of Mr. Wall’s clients, the heavy-metal icon Ozzy Osbourne, sued AEG on antitrust grounds, saying that it tried to bar him from playing its O2 arena in London, unless he played its Staples Center in Los Angeles. AEG said its policy was a response to Live Nation’s steering concerts to its Los Angeles rival, the Forum. The Justice Department’s inquiries into possible antitrust violations have gone beyond the bitter rivalry, with regulators in the past year looking into reports of Live Nation threats at venues that AEG does not manage: at the H-E-B Center outside Austin, Tex.; and at Boston’s TD Garden, according to executives familiar with the federal review. Justice officials declined to comment on the status of their inquiries. Several of the venue owners have denied the accounts of threats reported by others. The inquiries come as Justice officials review two more proposed mergers of huge companies — AT&T with Time Warner, and the Walt Disney Company with 21st Century Fox. In discussing those proposals, the department’s new antitrust chief has pointed to the Live Nation deal and several other mergers as problematic because, he said, they relied too much on the federal government’s ability to police corporate behavior. “Even if we wanted to do that, we often don’t have the skills or the tools to do so effectively,” Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim said in a speech last November. Beau Buffier, the chief of the New York Attorney General’s Antitrust Bureau, was blunter in assessing whether the government had done enough to ensure a vital ticketing marketplace. Advertisement “The Consent Decree was supposed to prevent Live Nation from using its strength in live entertainment to foreclose competition in ticketing,” said Mr. Buffier. “But it is now widely seen as the poster child for the problems that arise when enforcers adopt these temporary fixes to limit the anticompetitive effects of deeply problematic vertical mergers.” The live music business has long operated as an ecosystem where multiple parties work together to put on a show. Promoters front the money for a concert or tour and take on the greatest risk. Talent agents and managers negotiate artists’ fees. Venues rent space and hire ticketing companies to handle their events. These were long separate fiefs. But Live Nation now operates in all of them, so it’s the rare music fan who does not run into the company somewhere in any concert-going experience. It operates more than 200 venues worldwide. It promoted some 30,000 shows around the world last year and sold 500 million tickets. Its portfolio of acquisitions since the merger includes the Lollapalooza and Bonnaroo festivals, promoters from Idaho to Sweden, and a string of European and American ticketing companies. It also draws more fire from music fans than any other company, in large part because it is blamed — unfairly in many respects — for skyrocketing ticket prices and the size of those much-maligned ticket service fees, both costs it only partly influences. Though the price of tickets has soared, that trajectory predates the merger and is driven by many factors, including artists’ reliance on touring income as record sales have plummeted. Alan B. Krueger, a professor of economics and public policy at Princeton University, said that fan demand was the primary force behind higher prices and the money was drawing a broader array of acts to the stage. Advertisement Live Nation typically locks up much of the best talent by offering generous advances to artists and giving them a huge percentage of the ticket revenue from the door. Why? Because it can afford to. It has so many other related revenue streams on which to draw: sponsorships for the tour, concessions at venues, and, most of all, ticket fees. The fees supply about half of Live Nation’s earnings, according to company reports. Ticketmaster said it no longer sets the final fee. It just negotiates a set per-ticket charge. The rest of the fee is added on by the venues and sometimes promoters too. Yet at many concerts Live Nation is not just the ticket seller, but also the promoter, the venue operator or even the artist’s manager, with an opportunity to collect at every juncture. 
            Live Nation is the world’s largest concert promoter. But since its merger with Ticketmaster in 2010, it has become much more than that, with a “flywheel” business model that takes in a diverse set of revenue streams.         Concerts The core of Live Nation’s business, but the segment with its lowest profit margins. As the promoter, Live Nation takes the primary financial risk for a show, while most of the money from the face value of a ticket goes to the artist. Venues Owning or managing a concert venue lets the company collect money from parking, food and V.I.P. packages. How much? Last year Live Nation reported $24 in “ancillary revenue per fan” at its amphitheaters — up nearly 20 percent in two years. Ticketing While most of the face value of a ticket goes to the performers, the fees added to it are a coveted profit center. Ticketmaster, venues and sometimes promoters share in this income. In recent years, Live Nation has also entered the secondary market, competing with StubHub and others to collect additional fees whenever a ticket is resold. Sponsorship Live Nation’s scale — 86 million people around the world attend its concerts each year, the company says — makes it attractive to advertisers, who pay to reach its customers at a venue or on a tour or on websites like Ticketmaster.com. Artist Management Live Nation has built a division of executives who manage the careers of more than 500 artists, including U2, Madonna, Miley Cyrus, Britney Spears and Lil Wayne. Other Deals For a handful of superstar acts, like U2 and Madonna, Live Nation has made long-term touring deals. And with Jay-Z, the company has a multifaceted joint-venture, Roc Nation. Concerts Venues Ticketing The core of Live Nation’s business, but the segment with its lowest profit margins. As the promoter, Live Nation takes the primary financial risk for a show, while most of the money from the face value of a ticket goes to the artist. Owning or managing a concert venue lets the company collect money from parking, food and V.I.P. packages. How much? Last year Live Nation reported $24 in “ancillary revenue per fan” at its amphitheaters — up nearly 20 percent in two years. While most of the face value of a ticket goes to the performers, the fees added to it are a coveted profit center. Ticketmaster, venues and sometimes promoters share in this income. In recent years, Live Nation has also entered the secondary market, competing with StubHub and others to collect additional fees whenever a ticket is resold. Sponsorship Artist Management Other Deals Live Nation’s scale — 86 million people around the world attend its concerts each year, the company says — makes it attractive to advertisers, who pay to reach its customers at a venue or on a tour or on websites like Ticketmaster.com. Live Nation has built a division of executives who manage the careers of more than 500 artists, including U2, Madonna, Miley Cyrus, Britney Spears and Lil Wayne. For a handful of superstar acts, like U2 and Madonna, Live Nation has made long-term touring deals. And with Jay-Z, the company has a multifaceted joint-venture, Roc Nation. Concerts Venues Ticketing The core of Live Nation’s business, but the segment with its lowest profit margins. As the promoter, Live Nation takes the primary financial risk for a show, while most of the money from the face value of a ticket goes to the artist. Owning or managing a concert venue lets the company collect money from parking, food and V.I.P. packages. How much? Last year Live Nation reported $24 in “ancillary revenue per fan” at its amphitheaters — up nearly 20 percent in two years. While most of the face value of a ticket goes to the performers, the fees added to it are a coveted profit center. Ticketmaster, venues and sometimes promoters share in this income. In recent years, Live Nation has also entered the secondary market, competing with StubHub and others to collect additional fees whenever a ticket is resold. Sponsorship Artist Management Other Deals Live Nation’s scale — 86 million people around the world attend its concerts each year, the company says — makes it attractive to advertisers, who pay to reach its customers at a venue or on a tour or on websites like Ticketmaster.com. Live Nation has built a division of executives who manage the careers of more than 500 artists, including U2, Madonna, Miley Cyrus, Britney Spears and Lil Wayne. For a handful of superstar acts, like U2 and Madonna, Live Nation has made long-term touring deals. And with Jay-Z, the company has a multifaceted joint-venture, Roc Nation. MARCH 30, 2018
 Take, for example, an April 2016 concert in Nashville where Ticketmaster added a $14.75 fee on top of a $36 ticket for a show in an amphitheater Live Nation owned. Even Michael Rapino, Live Nation’s chief executive, called that fee “not defendable,” according to an internal email. Holding onto venues is critical to a company that relies so much on ticket fees. Mr. Rapino has repeatedly boasted to Wall Street that the number of venues it tickets around the world — a statistic it does not release — is constantly growing. For the live music market, a larger question going forward is whether Live Nation is now so big, so empowered by the merger, that competition in ticketing at the major venues is effectively blocked. Jared Smith, the president of Ticketmaster in North America, said no, that evidence of vibrant competition can be seen in the innovative technology and better deals that his company must now offer venues to keep them from switching to a rival. “The space is more competitive than it’s ever been,” he said. “We’re working harder each and every year.” AEG acknowledges that some part of its difficulty in securing contracts is rooted in its own missteps in developing a competitive ticketing system. And certainly, at the lower reaches of the market, Ticketmaster’s share is not nearly so commanding. Advertisement But it’s clear that Ticketmaster, by whatever means, has kept its rivals from gaining a meaningful foothold in the market for major music venues. Preserving competition in the ticketing market was a chief concern for regulators when the Live Nation-Ticketmaster merger was proposed in 2009. Live Nation, which had long stayed in its lane as a promoter and venue operator, had just begun to sell tickets and was taking on that role at some 110 venues. If the two companies merged, that competition — a healthy marketplace development, as regulators saw it — would disappear. So, as part of the consent decree, Justice officials ordered steps that they hoped would enable two new robust challengers. One measure required Ticketmaster to license its ticketing software — the proprietary system that allowed it to service swarms of customers when a popular concert went on sale — to its competitor AEG. It was also required to divest a ticketing subsidiary, Paciolan, to another competitor. But, as it turned out, AEG never licensed the Ticketmaster software because, it said, it did not view the technology as cutting edge. The company that Ticketmaster sold off, Paciolan, remained a niche player in the music end of the business. “It has now been eight years since the merger and the world does not look a lot different,” said John E. Kwoka Jr., a professor of economics at Northeastern University and a longtime critic of the merger. Ms. Varney declined to comment on the effectiveness of the agreement she had shepherded. But the antitrust division’s former chief counsel, Gene Kimmelman, said the Justice Department had been hampered in what it could do to create competition in an industry already so dominated by one company. “The people who came in to oversee this transaction were very interested in doing everything imaginable to create more competition in ticketing in the marketplace,” he said, “and were frustrated that the options were unbelievably limited.” Advertisement Few buildings in Louisville are as important to the local economy as the KFC Yum! Center, a 22,000-seat arena on the banks of the Ohio River that features a mix of events, from Louisville Cardinals basketball games to concerts by Garth Brooks. In 2012, Live Nation submitted a joint bid with another company for a contract to manage the arena. Three people who listened to Live Nation’s pitch said in interviews that the company said some of its tours might skip the arena if it lost the deal. “One of their main selling points was the relationship with the talent that they had and their ability to determine where that talent chose to play,” said Larry Hayes, who was then chairman of the Louisville Arena Authority, which oversees the venue. The arena picked AEG anyway. Mr. Fikre and other AEG officials say that two years later, when their company considered replacing Ticketmaster with their own ticketing service, AXS, Live Nation gave a warning. Over dinner on the night of a Miley Cyrus concert in August 2014, they said, a Live Nation executive told AEG’s local venue manager that some Live Nation tours would likely bypass Louisville if AEG made good on its plan to replace Ticketmaster. This is one of the incidents that AEG complained about to the Justice Department, pointing out that the consent decree specifically forbids Live Nation from threatening to withhold shows from venues that do not hire Ticketmaster. The AEG account is supported by an internal email in which its employee reports being warned that the Yum! Center might lose “toss of the coin shows” — the kind that could go to a nearby arena — if Ticketmaster was dumped. Mr. Hayes said in an interview that he had not been aware of a second warning. He had, in fact, endorsed retaining Ticketmaster, he said: It had served the arena well. But the letter of endorsement he wrote to AEG made plain that he understood there was a nexus between employing Ticketmaster and retaining access to Live Nation talent. Advertisement “Due to the relationship between Ticketmaster and Live Nation,” Mr. Hayes wrote, “and knowing how important content is to our financial stability, the Louisville Arena Authority is requesting that AEG receive a formal bid from Ticketmaster to retain its business at the KFC Yum! Center.” AEG officials say they ultimately ditched the plan to replace Ticketmaster because they worried the venue might lose show revenue. Live Nation disputed the account of warnings and supplied data showing that since 2012 the number of tours it has sent to the KFC Yum! Center has only increased. (Even at the Gwinnett Center outside Atlanta, now known as the Infinite Energy Center, the number of Live Nation shows rebounded after dropping off in 2014.) There is little evidence, actually, of Live Nation retaliation. Competitors say that is because venues so rarely stray. Critics say enforcement of the consent decree has been complicated by what they call its ambiguous language. Though it forbids Live Nation from forcing a client to buy both its talent and ticketing, the agreement lets the company “bundle” its services “in any combination.” So Live Nation is barred from punishing an arena by, say, steering a star like Drake to appear at a rival stop down the road. But it’s also allowed, under the agreement, to redirect a concert if it can defend the decision as sound business. Mr. Buffier, of the New York Attorney General’s office, said the ambiguity creates “high burdens to prove violations in court.” Competitors assert that the bundling lets Live Nation pressure venues without ever uttering a threat. “They don’t need to,” said Marc Leibowitz, co-owner of One Percent Productions, an independent concert promoter in Omaha. “It’s just implied.” Advertisement David Willis, a former ticketing executive who left Ticketmaster in 2014, said the company was always careful to instruct the sales staff to respect the rules as to how talent could be mentioned when pitching an arena for business. “We were not saying, certainly, ‘If you don’t go with us you are losing that,’” he said. But he acknowledged, “I would imagine that that is what they assumed to be the case.” Live Nation and AEG both have their headquarters in Los Angeles, and last summer the companies faced off in a contract dispute over a new Major League Soccer team there, the Los Angeles Football Club. Trouble began brewing when the team began looking for someone to ticket its new stadium downtown, due to open this month. Ticketmaster put in a bid. But the team insisted that Live Nation bring in some concerts as well. Live Nation balked — soccer stadiums, executives said, were a poor fit for concerts — but it struck a preliminary deal that included ticketing and a commitment to provide a few shows each year. Then the plan hit a snag. AEG owned another professional soccer team in Los Angeles — the Galaxy — and had an agreement with Major League Soccer: If another franchise from Los Angeles joined the league, AEG had the right to match any competitor’s ticketing offer. Wielding that clause as leverage, AEG blocked the selection of Ticketmaster, and the contract instead went to SeatGeek, an upstart company that had deals with a number of M.L.S. teams. The Ticketmaster executives were furious and threatened to sue. They told the team owners that, if there was no Ticketmaster contract, they would not be getting the Live Nation shows. The team then complained to Major League Soccer that Live Nation had threatened to withhold talent, according to a statement by the league. Advertisement Live Nation denied it had made any kind of threat and pointed out that the soccer league has a small equity stake in SeatGeek. It said the arena had simply pulled out of a package deal that covered both ticketing and concerts — just the sort of bundling, it said, the Justice Department settlement had allowed. Without ticketing, according to Live Nation officials, it simply made no economic sense to put concerts in a space built for soccer. But the consent decree, which expires in 2020, also says Live Nation cannot “condition or threaten to condition the provision of live entertainment events” if a venue decides to use another company for ticketing. So is this a case of bullying, or just a business decision? “Live Nation and Ticketmaster,” the company said in a statement “do not ‘condition’ the placement of concerts at venues on becoming the venue’s ticketing provider. Venues, on the other hand, often condition the ticketing contract on guaranteed content.” Antitrust experts said this was the kind of thicket that Justice officials must navigate as they reviewed the antitrust complaints. Since the dust up, Live Nation has returned to the table and is discussing bringing acts to the stadium. The team declined to comment on the dispute. SeatGeek ended up holding onto the contract. But the perception that Live Nation might withhold talent is prevalent enough that SeatGeek now structures some bids to address the concerns of venues who fear losing big stars, and revenues. For example, last year, when SeatGeek tried to unseat Ticketmaster from its contract at the TD Garden in Boston, it included in its bid a promise to pay the arena $250,000 for every show that Live Nation pulled, according to a bid document reviewed by the Times and three people with knowledge of the negotiations. Ticketmaster still won. TD Garden officials said the contract was awarded on the merits, and they had not received threats. A SeatGeek spokesperson declined to discuss the negotiations. But Russ D’Souza, a founder of the company, said he has seen evidence that competition in the market is less than open. Advertisement “When we sell to teams,” he said, “we have heard fears about losing concerts if they choose us.” Colin Moynihan contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Roster of Stars Lets Live Nation Flex Ticket Muscles, Rivals Say.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESAPRIL 1, 2018
 TRADE The Trump administration is expected this week to announce the list of Chinese products that will be hit with tariffs over what the administration has called the country’s theft of intellectual property. Mr. Trump has said the levies will affect at least $50 billion in imported goods and will most likely focus on cutting-edge tech products of the kind that United States fears losing out on to China. Americans are more likely to feel the impact of these tariffs than those applied to steel and aluminum in March, because they will probably hit consumer products found on store shelves, rather than raw materials used by manufacturers. Natalie Kitroeff ECONOMY The Federal Reserve Bank of New York will begin publishing a new short-term market interest rate on Tuesday. The Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or S.O.F.R., was created to wean the world’s financial markets off the London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, a benchmark rate that currently serves as the basis for hundreds of trillions of dollars of financial instruments — from interest rate swaps to credit card and mortgage debt — that incorporate floating interest rates. Since the 2008 financial crisis, policymakers and financial institutions alike have wanted to find a replacement for Libor, as the process for setting the rate has been vulnerable to manipulation. The New York Fed’s new rate is based on the rates in the active market for a kind of short term-loan known as a repurchase agreement, or repo, which uses Treasury securities as collateral. Matt Phillips REGULATION By Wednesday, thousands of companies with at least 250 employees in Britain must publish figures showing their gender pay gap for the fiscal year ending in 2017. The requirement to submit this data to the government has put pressure on companies to explain the differences, which are often a result of fewer women in management and more women in lower-paid levels or occupations. EasyJet, one of the companies that has already filed, reported a 52 percent pay gap and its chief executive cut his salary by 34,000 pounds to match his female predecessor’s earnings. The filings have fueled debate over pay for women, which has been under greater scrutiny since the British Broadcasting Corporation attracted high-profile criticism for its pay practices. Amie Tsang ECONOMY Last month’s jobs report was a barn burner: Employers added 313,000 jobs in February, the most in one month since 2016, and the strong labor market drew hundreds of thousands of Americans into the work force. March’s data, due from the Labor Department on Friday, is unlikely to match those highs. Still, all signs point to the job market — and the economy, in general — remaining strong. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected the report would show a gain of 189,000 jobs and a decline in the unemployment rate to 4 percent, which would represent the best mark since 2000. And in good news for workers, economists expect a modest pickup in wage growth, which was sluggish in February and has been weak for much of the nearly nine-year-long recovery. Ben Casselman Jerome H. Powell will make his first speech outside Washington as the chairman of the Federal Reserve on Friday, choosing an itinerary that demonstrates his concern for business and entrepreneurship. Mr. Powell will tour a manufacturing incubator in Chicago on Friday afternoon, after giving a speech on the economic outlook at the Economic Club of Chicago. Jim Tankersley INTERNATIONAL Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia has met with President Trump, business leaders, journalists, technology executives and even rabbis on his whirlwind multiweek tour of the United States. He will finish up his trip on Saturday in Houston, the global energy capital, with visits to Saudi Aramco facilities, including a technology center and a refinery outside the city. Clifford Krauss We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 

 Marc Tracy
 
 
ON COLLEGE BASKETBALL
APRIL 1, 2018
 SAN ANTONIO — An N.C.A.A. championship game is typically no place for a David-vs.-Goliath story. The last two teams standing are usually among the very best and, roughly, equals. That first truism remains accurate: Top-seeded Villanova (35-4), the Big East champion, and third-seeded Michigan (33-7), the Big Ten champion, are both among the best teams in college basketball. But equals? Hardly. While only a fool or a gambler — if there is a difference — should be in the business of making predictions, it seems fair to cast the 2018 Division I men’s title game on Monday night as one with a prohibitive favorite and a fairly significant underdog. Start with Michigan. They play an immensely appealing style of basketball, both on offense — elegant cuts from the perimeter, bully-ball down low — and defense, where they were one of the very best teams this year. Their coach, John Beilein, has a Hall of Fame résumé, and is coaching in his second title game in six seasons. Also, it’s Michigan. Plainly the Wolverines’ presence is no fluke. Advertisement But this team got here by the seat of its pants. In the regular season, the Wolverines’ record against teams that went on to make the N.C.A.A. tournament was 3-4. It’s no wonder that they received the fifth seed in their conference tournament, granting them only a single bye. (As a result, Michigan could become just the second champion to play 41 games, following Connecticut in 2011.) Advertisement Like last year, when the scare of a plane mishap en route to the Big Ten tournament helped inspired a championship run, they turned it on during this year’s conference tournament, winning four games in four days. Then came the N.C.A.A. tournament, and here they are. But in getting here, Michigan was compelled to defeat teams with the following seeds: No. 14; No. 6; No. 7; No. 9; No. 11. Not exactly a murderers’ row. And while some of its wins were authoritative, others were close, such as the second-round game against Houston won on Jordan Poole’s buzzer-beater, or Saturday night’s gritted-out victory over No. 11 Loyola-Chicago. This is a fine model for March: survive and advance. “If you win a Big Ten championship in any way, then you can win a national championship,” Beilein said last week. “But after that, it’s about breaks, and anything can happen.” But now look at the other corner. Villanova is a giant. On Saturday night, its least-heralded major contributor, Eric Paschall, a junior, had 24 points and three rebounds in 29 minutes. The Wildcats’ point guard, Jalen Brunson, is the consensus national player of the year. Mikal Bridges, a forward — though he can play like a guard and has the wingspan of a center — is expected to be taken in the N.B.A. draft in June with a lottery pick. Their big freshman, Omari Spellman, shoots 3-pointers like they were seven-foot hook shots. The seeds they beat to get here? Nos. 16, 9, 5, 3 and 1. In two of those games, the Wildcats won by 12; in the others, they won by more.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Villanova’s adjusted offensive efficiency, per the analytics site KenPom.com, is the second-best in college basketball since at least 2002 (the only superior team in that category being the 2015 runner-up, Wisconsin). That may be why the Wildcats barely even talk about it. “We don’t pride ourselves on shooting the ball well,” Spellman said after Saturday’s 95-79 humiliation of Kansas in the semifinal. “We pride ourselves on defending and rebounding, and that’s our true measure of success in playing Villanova basketball.” In terms of Xs and Os, this is a compelling matchup. Villanova accrues a greater share of its baskets from 3-point range than nearly every other college basketball team. Michigan’s opponents score fewer of their points from 3-point range than nearly every other college basketball team, according to KenPom.com. Advertisement Going into the Loyola game, Michigan’s coaches spoke of the importance of limiting the Ramblers’ 2-point shooting percentage because they took it almost as a given that they would be successful at stopping them from deep — it is what Michigan does. So, despite the fact that, as Kansas Coach Bill Self said of Villanova on Saturday night: “They’d be hard for anybody to deal with if they shoot the ball like that” — “that” being 18-for-40 from 3-point range — it is likely the Wildcats won’t shoot the ball like that Monday against Michigan. Then again, in their round-of-8 game versus Texas Tech — like Michigan, a No. 3 seed — the Wildcats made just 4 of 24 three-point attempts. It did not matter. They outrebounded Texas Tech, a physical Big 12 team, 51-33. They got to the free-throw line, and made 29 of 35 foul shots. They limited the Red Raiders to 33.3 percent from the field. With their dominant hand tied behind their back, they won comfortably, 71-59. “It’s specifically gratifying to see 33 percent and outrebounding them in the biggest game so far,” Coach Jay Wright said after that game. They may need a similar game against Michigan. It may not be gorgeous. But gorgeous may no longer be what defines “Villanova basketball,” a phrase every Wright team learns to repeat robotically. And it may not specifically be “defending and rebounding,” as Spellman said, either. The characteristic that may most strongly correlate with Villanova basketball is winning. Still, if the Wolverines end Monday night on top, nobody can deny that they faced the toughest of competition. So hail to the victors, whoever they are. A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Sure, Villanova Is a Heavy Favorite. The X’s and O’s Are Still Tantalizing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Metropolitan Diary  By                     
ABIGAIL BEREOLA

APRIL 1, 2018
 Dear Diary: On a cold winter morning, I went to Crown Heights to meet Blue, a dog that my friend was watching for a couple of days. Blue was an older Dachshund, squat and stately, with back problems and an affinity for frozen green beans. As my friend prepared to go out for the day, I rubbed Blue’s back and told him a secret: I think I’m in love with my friend, I said, “but I don’t think I can tell him yet.” Blue rolled over onto his stomach and looked at me with big brown eyes. With Blue on a leash, my friend and I walked past bodegas and restaurants toward the Franklin Avenue subway station, and then looped around to walk through Prospect Park. Blue kept moving in front of me so that my friend and I were side by side. “Why does Blue want you to be in the middle?” my friend asked. I shrugged, but I knew. Read all recent entries and our submissions guidelines. Reach us via email diary@nytimes.com and follow @NYTMetro on Twitter. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 2:18 P.M. E.D.T.
 NASHVILLE, Tenn. —  Taylor Swift returned to her country roots during a surprise appearance at Nashville's famed Bluebird Cafe. The Tennessean reports Swift joined songwriter Craig Wiseman on stage Saturday night. The 28-year-old Swift received a standing ovation from the roughly 40 patrons. Her hair in a ponytail and wearing a black turtleneck, Swift grabbed an acoustic guitar and played her pop hit "Shake It Off" before performing "Love Story" and "Better Man," which won a Grammy Award for the best country duo or group performance for Little Big Town. Swift reminded Wiseman he had passed on the opportunity to write "Love Story" with her. Wiseman and Swift have known each other since meeting at a charity show when she was a teenager. ___ Information from: The Tennessean, http://www.tennessean.com We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 5:24 P.M. E.D.T.
 SARASOTA, Fla. —  Florida homeowners beware: one big gator has been found splashing in a backyard swimming pool and it took a trapper to drag it away. The Sarasota County Sheriff's Office posted images of the floating gator late Friday on Twitter, saying it measured 11 feet (3 meters) long. With temperatures warming, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission warns that the state's estimated 1.3 million gators are becoming more active — and should be treated with "caution and respect." There've been at least two other gator sightings in yards recently, one mistaken for a burglar. Injuries from alligators are rare, but the commission urges swimming only in designated areas of rivers and lakes. As for backyard swimming pools, it makes no mention. But for some homeowners, that too is "swim at your own risk." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 7:23 A.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Liverpool defender Virgil van Dijk is relishing the prospect of taking on domestic league leaders Manchester City in the first leg of their Champions League quarter-final next week. Goals from forwards Sadio Mane and Mohamed Salah helped the Merseyside club come back from a goal down to seal a 2-1 victory  over Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park on Saturday in manager Juergen Klopp's 100th league game in the English top-flight. Liverpool have little time to savour their win, however, as they return to action on Wednesday when they face Premier League leaders City at Anfield in Europe's elite club competition. "I'm looking forward to it. I think every player wants to play these games. We will prepare well and be ready for it," Van Dijk told the club's website (http://www.liverpoolfc.com). Advertisement Liverpool could be without the injured Adam Lallana for the visit of City after the midfielder was forced off the pitch three minutes after coming on as a substitute against Palace.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Klopp later described Lallana's muscle injury as "a big, big blow." Defender Joe Gomez is also out of the game after suffering ankle ligament damage on international duty with England last Friday, limping off in the friendly against the Netherlands. Liverpool are third in the league with 66 points, five points ahead of fourth-placed Tottenham Hotspur, who visit Chelsea on Sunday. Advertisement (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; Editing by Toby Davis) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:23 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Stoke manager Paul Lambert said on Sunday he was fully confident that his team will avoid relegation from the Premier League this season - with just a little help from Lady Luck. "The one thing that's missing from our game at the minute is Lady Luck. Teams need it, players need it, everybody needs it. At the minute we've just not had it," Lambert told reporters after Stoke lost 3-0 to Arsenal at the Emirates. The late Arsenal goal rush left Stoke second from bottom in the league on 27 points, only three points behind Crystal Palace in 17th spot but with a heavy goal deficit to make up. Lambert said he was unhappy about the referee's penalty decision, awarded for a foul by Bruno Martins Indi on Mesut Ozil, that led to Arsenal's first goal in the 74th minute. Advertisement "In the big moments in the big games, I think you've got to be 100 percent right to call them (penalties), especially with the magnitude of the game. It was a game changer," Lambert said. Advertisement But he was happy with the fight his side had shown throughout the game and in other recent matches, despite them now having gone eight games without a win.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I thought we were brilliant. We came here against a team in the top six and that has been for years. Performance-wise I couldn't ask any more," Lambert said. "I'm pretty sure the way that we performed gives everybody great hope that we can finish in the League," he said. "There's been really good games that we should have took more points out of." Asked again how confident he was of avoiding the drop, Lambert was unequivocal: "One hundred percent. I thought that when I came in, and nothing's changed my mind that we're going to do it." (Reporting by Hugh Lawson; Editing by Toby Davis) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 7:48 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  The Latest on the championship of the NCAA Tournament (all times local): 7:45 p.m. Turner Sports and CBS Sports officials say the two Final Four games drew an average of 13.4 million viewers across the cable networks and primary streaming app where it aired. That's down from an average of 16.8 million viewers who watched the national semifinal games on the broadcast flagship CBS last year. Gonzaga beat South Carolina and North Carolina beat Oregon, both in close games, last year in what was the second-most viewed Final Four in the last 19 years. Michigan's win over Loyola-Chicago and Villanova's defeat of Kansas aired on TBS as well as TNT and truTV, which carried team-specific telecasts. The games were also streamed on March Madness Live. Michigan pulled away late to be beat Loyola 69-57, and then the Wildcats blew out the Jayhawks 95-79 in a game that was never close. Network officials say the numbers are up compared with two years ago, when the Final Four last aired on cable rather than CBS. Advertisement ___ 2:30 p.m. The memory that stands out for Duncan Robinson from playing in the 2014 NCAA Division III Final Four with Williams College was losing the championship game after Wisconsin-Whitewater made a layup in the final second. Advertisement Robinson, now a Michigan senior, is the only player who has played in both the Division I and Division III Final Fours. And now he gets another title shot when the Wolverines take on Villanova. "As far as my freshman year ... when you go through something like that, a championship run, you're kind of forged together for, hopefully, life," Robinson said. "Those guys on that team my freshman year are still some of my closest friends, as I know these guys on this team will be as well." Robinson scored 9 points for Michigan in the national semifinal win over Loyola-Chicago. ___ 1:45 p.m. When Villanova's Jalen Brunson and Michigan guard Charles Matthews were high school standouts in Illinois, Brunson beat out Matthews for the state's Mr. Basketball award. Brunson and Matthews are contending for the same trophy again — the NCAA national championship. "He deserved it, he won the championship," Matthews said. Sure, Matthews would have liked to win the high school honors back in 2015. "I would rather win a title," said Matthews, who in five NCAA Tournament games has led the Wolverines with 16.6 points per game.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ___ 12:15 p.m. Third-seeded Michigan doesn't have much support from the public when it comes to pulling off an upset of No. 1 seed Villanova. Oddsmakers in Las Vegas set the opening line for the championship game favoring Villanova by 5 1/2 points, and gamblers quickly pushed that to 6 1/2 points by backing the Wildcats. Sports book data compiled by Pregame.com shows bettors are overwhelmingly backing Villanova in every respect, whether gambling on the spread or the money line. There also appears to be consensus between sharps and casual bettors. Only about 3 percent of brackets filled out on Yahoo and ESPN platforms selected Michigan as a title winner, while Villanova was the most popular champion on Yahoo and just behind Virginia as the most likely pick for champion before the tournament began. Advertisement ___ 11:30 a.m. Michigan has made a shift in recent years to transform into one of the country's best defensive teams. Villanova is dropping 3-pointers like pop-a-shot and making teams look far less skilled. Both teams are preparing Sunday for the final game of the NCAA Tournament, as March Madness bleeds into April for the championship game on Monday night. Michigan (33-7) got here by ousting Loyola-Chicago in the Final Four on Saturday night, sending home Sister Jean and her Ramblers, the fan-favorite underdogs. Villanova (35-4) turned a highly-anticipated matchup against fellow No. 1 seed Kansas into a rout, making a Final Four record 18 3-pointers and also becoming the most prolific long-range shooting team in NCAA history with 442 makes. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 10:08 A.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  Coca-Cola Co thought it had a deal with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service on how much the company charged foreign affiliates for the rights to make and sell Coke products abroad. Then in September 2015 a letter from the IRS arrived at Coca-Cola's Atlanta headquarters with a bill for back taxes whose amount, $3.3 billion, stunned the world's No. 1 soft drinks maker. Coca-Cola sued the IRS, disputing the bill. The case is being tried now in U.S. Tax Court in Washington. A verdict is not expected for some time after the trial ends, expected in mid-April.     The case is being watched closely by tax experts as a sign of rising tension between tax authorities and multinational corporations over transfer pricing, that is, the way companies value the goods, services, trademark and patent rights that they constantly move among foreign units across national boundaries. Advertisement An important management discipline inside multinationals, transfer pricing is under more scrutiny than ever before from tax agencies worldwide because of strict new global standards, raising legal risks for companies and their investors. Advertisement The Coca-Cola case goes to trial as interest among corporations in seeking multi-year deals with the IRS covering transfer pricing arrangements has fallen in the past two years. The IRS reported on Friday that it received 101 applications in 2017 for "advance pricing agreements" (APAs), similar to 2016's level of 98 in 2016, but well below 2015's peak of 183. APA applications also fell in 2016 in Japan, the top U.S. bilateral APA partner, according to the latest data. Anecdotal evidence suggests the APA process, designed to prevent conflict, is under strain in many countries, with some tax lawyers citing Mexico, Italy and China as challenging. Corporate tax directors at a conference in Washington earlier this month said APAs are taking longer to negotiate and government tax agencies are less willing to do them. "We're really living in a different time and we can understand why tax authorities might be reluctant because there's a lot more external scrutiny than there ever was," said Amy Roberti, director of global tax and fiscal policy for Procter & Gamble Co, at the conference. Asked for more details afterward, Roberti said through a company spokeswoman that APAs help Procter & Gamble build "relationships with governments and fiscal authorities." Advertisement The IRS did not immediately provide answers to questions about the Coca-Cola case and transfer pricing, in general.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Coca-Cola responded to questions by providing an internal employee memo about the case that said, "The company firmly believes that the IRS' claims are without merit and will pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies." TRANSFER PRICING CHALLENGE The IRS contends that Coca-Cola charged several foreign affiliates royalties that were too low from 2007 to 2009, which reduced the parent company's U.S. income and resulted in underpayment of its U.S. income taxes by $3.3 billion. Tax agencies often challenge transfer pricing arrangements on the grounds that they are set up to minimize income in high-tax countries and maximize it in low-tax countries. Under a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting framework set up by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in 2016, one hundred national tax agencies including the IRS expect companies to use an "arm's length" approach to transfer pricing. That means, in the case of trademark rights, for instance, charging foreign units royalties equal to their open market value. The trouble is that trademarks are usually unique. So approximating their "arm's length" price is difficult. Coca-Cola says in court filings that the IRS approved the company's method for setting its transfer prices for the affiliates in a 1996 agreement, but that the IRS later withdrew that approval and issued the bill for back taxes. Coca-Cola did not have an APA with the IRS. Instead, it had an APA-like "audit closing agreement" that dated back to 1996 and was, the company says, reaffirmed in later audits. But much changed in transfer pricing over the more than 20 years since Coca-Cola reached its understanding with the IRS. Advertisement "It's an interesting case," said former IRS Acting Commissioner Steven Miller. "If I were a tax director, I would be thinking about how much I can rely on agreements like this. "It does drive home how important it is not to just assume that an agreement can be relied on forever because apparently, maybe not,” said Miller, now national director of tax at consulting firm Alliantgroup. (Additional reporting by Chris Prentice in New York, Amanda Becker in Washington and Stanley White in Tokyo; Editing by Damon Darlin and Steve Orlofsky) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By BILLY WITZAPRIL 1, 2018
 TORONTO — With Toronto Blue Jays at second and third, two outs in the eighth inning and the Yankees clinging to a one-run lead, Manager Aaron Boone and the pitching coach Larry Rothschild looked to the mound from their perch on the dugout railing and gestured to reliever David Robertson. What did Robertson want to do — pitch to Josh Donaldson or walk him to bring up Justin Smoak? Robertson nodded toward first base, and Boone agreed, so the manager held up four fingers to the home plate umpire, David Rackley. After walking Donaldson, Robertson engaged in an intense, nine-pitch at-bat that ended when Smoak — in a mental chess game with Robertson — correctly predicted a fastball and belted a home run over the center field wall to hand the Yankees a 7-4 defeat on Sunday afternoon. It was the second home run of the day for Smoak, and the second consecutive loss for the Yankees in which their vaunted bullpen had faltered. They split their first series of the season, two games apiece, with the Blue Jays. Advertisement Most significant, as the Yankees geared up for their first home game of the season on Monday, was that Sunday’s events laid bare the decision-making process of Boone, their new leader who has never coached or managed before. Advertisement The decision to walk Donaldson was reasonable on paper: He had hit two home runs in nine plate appearances against Robertson. Smoak, on the other hand, was hitless against Robertson in six trips, including strikeouts in all three at-bats last season. The modern game dictates that these types of numbers not be ignored. Experience is increasingly given short shrift when teams hire managers because such in-game decisions can be mapped out well before they actually happen. There is little use for going with one’s gut — or, termed another way, the observation of an experienced hand. So, the fact that Donaldson was 2 for 13 in the series — or that Smoak had five hits in his previous eight at-bats, including a 2-run home run off Tommy Kahnle in the seventh inning — did not outweigh the long-term data. “It can,” Boone said. “But less than I think some may think. I don’t get caught up too much in last at-bat, two at-bats ago, or even recent small history. That’s part of it — you’re reading swings and reading how guys are doing and stuff like that, but you’re trying to match up skill set with skill set, more so.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. What Boone liked was that Robertson has a devastating curveball that he mixes mostly with a cut fastball. “It’s not just on a whim,” Boone said. “That’s the matchup we wanted.” Robertson froze Smoak with a cutter to climb back in the count to 2-2. Smoak fouled off the next pitch, a curveball, and took another in the dirt to run the count full before fighting off two more curveballs on his hands to stay alive. “I threw him some really good pitches,” Robertson said. “He just kept fouling them off and stayed on me. I thought I could get a fastball by him. I didn’t think I could throw him another curveball; he’d already seen too many then.” At that point, Smoak was thinking much the same thing. “Honestly, he snuck a cutter right down the middle by me and I was pretty much all in on an off-speed pitch there,” Smoak said. “In the back of my mind I had a feeling he might sneak it by me again because I was able to battle those two curveballs off.” Advertisement Smoak smiled. “I’m glad I was thinking the way I was thinking,” he said. Robertson was asked if he felt good about the decisive pitch when it left his hand. “It’s a strike,” he said. “It’s 3-2. I’ve got the tying run on third base. Everything I’m throwing right there is as hard as I can, with quality and in the strike zone. I just wasn’t fortunate enough today.” The same could be said of his manager. INSIDE PITCH Aaron Judge, back in right field after playing in center on Saturday, threw out Russell Martin at the plate in the second inning … Brandon Drury hit his first home run with the Yankees, belting a hanging slider from Marcus Stroman over the left-field wall for a 2-run shot that gave the Yankees a 4-1 lead in the third inning … Sonny Gray allowed only one run and struck out eight, but he lasted just four-plus innings because he threw 89 pitches. A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Decision Backfires, and Yanks Give Up a Blast.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 11:56 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  ARSENAL 3 STOKE CITY 0 Arsenal dealt Stoke City's Premier League survival hopes a cruel blow on Sunday at the Emirates with three late goals in a 3-0 victory that left the visitors second from bottom with six games left to play. After a dreary hour and a quarter of play punctuated by occasional booing from the home crowd, Mesut Ozil won a penalty when he raced into the box only to be brought down by Stoke's Bruno Martins Indi. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored from the spot and then struck again from close range 12 minutes later, before Alexandre Lacazette converted another penalty, having been brought crashing to the ground by Badou Ndiaye. It was the Gunner's first back-to-back win in the top flight since November, but until the late goalfest it often made for painful viewing, as Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger said at a news conference afterwards. Advertisement "We didn't play well in the first half at all. In the second half we rectified that. That's the difference basically of the attitude of the team - that explains nil-nil at halftime and three-nil at full time," Wenger told reporters. Advertisement "In the second half our pace was much better." The home side also made numerous changes to the lineup from their previous fixture, most likely with their Thursday night Europa League quarter-final first leg at home to CSKA Moscow in mind. But their communication and passing suffered as a result, as they gave the ball away repeatedly in the first half.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That let Stoke push them back deep into their own half, and Swiss striker Xherdan Shaqiri gave the Gunners a scare in the fourth minute when he collected the ball outside the area on the right, only to curl his shot inches outside the far post. Stoke, who had been looking for their first victory at Arsenal since 1981 and their first double over the Gunners since 1975-76 season, are now without a win in their last eight games. Their manager, Paul Lambert, said he was unhappy about the first penalty decision in particular, saying it changed the game and helped lead to a lopsided final score. "In the big moments in the big games, I think you've got to be 100 percent right to call them (penalties), especially with the magnitude of the game. It was a game changer," he said. The loss leaves his Stoke side 19th in the league with 27 points, while Arsenal stay sixth with 51 points, 10 points off the Champions League qualification places. (Reporting by Hugh Lawson; Editing by Toby Davis and Christian Radnedge) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 7:03 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Paul DeJong made the right decision to give up the scalpel, trumpet and piano to concentrate on baseball. A rising star on the St. Louis Cardinals, the 24-year-old shortstop had the first multihomer game of his young big league career Sunday and helped the St. Louis Cardinals beat the New York Mets 5-1 to avoid an opening three-game sweep. DeJong hit .285 with 25 home runs and 65 RBIs as a rookie last year, earning a $26 million, six-year contract. He had 13 homers at Triple-A Memphis before his major league debut on May 28 — when he homered off Colorado closer Greg Holland on his first big league swing. "I know that I can consistently hit for power, whether it's doubles or homers," DeJong said. A 2015 graduate of Illinois State who majored in biochemistry and pre-medicine, he was selected by the Cardinals in the fourth round of that year's amateur draft. During spring training last month, when the Cardinals gave him the big contract, he attended several social events of the Palm Beach Symphony — not a regular nightlife stop of most big leaguers. Advertisement "I like all types of music, from Metallica to Chopin," he said. His younger brother Matthew is in a master's program for piano at Florida State. Advertisement "He was always more devoted to music than I was," DeJong said. "I played the piano, as well. Also the trumpet. But I stopped sophomore year in high school for the trumpet and a little earlier than that for the piano." DeJong sent a fastball from Steven Matz off the facing of the left-field second deck in the second inning and drove Jacob Rhame's slider off an orange M&M advertisement just over the left-field wall in the eighth for his second solo homer. "He's dangerous," Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said. "I won't put a ceiling on him." DeJong was 9 for 12 in a series against the Mets just before last year's All-Star break and is 15 for 41 versus New York with five doubles, six homers and eight RBIs overall. He is 3 for 3 with a pair of homers against Matz. "I had two strikes on him and I left the ball right over the plate," the lefty said. Luke Weaver (1-0), a rare starting pitcher with a single-digit uniform number (7), struggled through a 27-pitch first inning in his first outing and gave up Amed Rosario's tying single in the second. The 24-year-old right-hander, who last summer became the first Cardinals rookie to win seven straight starts since Ted Wilks in 1944, wound up allowing five hits in five innings, four of them singles. "A grind is like the perfect definition of what it was," Weaver said. Marcell Ozuna broke out of an 0-for-9 start with three hits, including an RBI double in the third and a run-scoring single in the fifth.Yadier Molina hit a leadoff homer in the fourth for the Cardinals, outscored 15-6 in the first two games. After solid starts by Noah Syndergaard and Jacob deGrom, Matz (0-1) tried to put behind an injury-decimated sophomore season in which the lefty slumped to a 2-7 record. He struggled with his control and was up to 51 pitches after two innings and 73 after three. He lasted five innings, giving up three runs and four hits, as the Mets kept up their terrible trend of last year, when they were 16-36 in series finales.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "All three runs I gave up I had two strikes on the guys," Matz said. "I was leaving the ball up a lot." In the Cardinals clubhouse after the game, there was loud, thumping music. DeJong hasn't grooved to classical music yet for batting practice. Advertisement "I've thought about it. I just haven't pulled the trigger. I don't bring my headphones with me, usually," he said. "I don't like to get too far in my head with music. Sometimes that can happen." SLUMPING START Cardinals leadoff hitter Dexter Fowler was 0 for 4 with three strikeouts before walking in the eighth inning and has started the season 0 for 13 with six Ks. TRADING PLACES St. Louis obtained OF Johan Mieses from the Los Angeles Dodgers for INF Breyvic Valera, who had been designated for assignment. HONORING RUSTY New York will wear a patch on the right sleeves of its jerseys for the rest of the season in honor of former Mets star Rusty Staub, who died Thursday. Sunday would have been his 74th birthday. TRAINER'S ROOM Mets: CF Brandon Nimmo was scratched after being up most of the night with flu-like symptoms. ... RHP Anthony Swarzak was to be evaluated after leaving Saturday's game with a sore left oblique. ... LHP Jason Vargas (broken right hand) threw a bullpen Saturday and is to throw a simulated game Monday. UP NEXT Cardinals: RHP Miles Mikolas makes his first big league appearance since Aug. 25, 2014, when he starts Monday at Milwaukee. He spent the past three seasons with the Yomiuri Giants in Japan's Central League. Mets: RHP Matt Harvey, coming off a 5-7 season, makes his 2018 debut Monday against visiting Philadelphia and Ben Lively. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 10:51 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Michigan's game plan used to revolve around offense, hitting enough shots to outscore teams. Sometimes it worked. Many times, often on the biggest stages, it didn't. The Wolverines have made a shift in recent years, transforming into one of the nation's best defensive teams. If shots aren't falling, they can always win with defense. It's gotten them to the national title game for the first time since 1989. Now Michigan faces its biggest challenge yet: trying to stop Villanova's horde of long-range shooters in Monday night's national title game. Good luck. "That's as good a team as we've played that I can remember," Kansas coach Bill Self said after the Wildcats crushed his Jayhawks with a barrage of 3-pointers in the national semifinals Saturday night. Advertisement Michigan (33-7) reached the title game by taking away Cinderella's slipper, sending Loyola-Chicago and Sister Jean home a game short of completing their divine run. Advertisement Villanova bombed its way past a blue blood to get there. The Wildcats (35-4) turned a Final Four showdown with fellow No. 1 seed Kansas into a laugher, dropping in 3-pointers like they were playing pop-a-shot in the 95-79 rout. Villanova made a Final Four-record 18 3s in a record-matching 40 attempts, its second trip in three seasons to the title game never in doubt. That's an NCAA record 442 from the arc this season — and they're still counting. "I feel bad for Kansas," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "They're a great team, we just made every shot." The third-seeded Wolverines (33-7) had a bit more trouble against the bracket's favorite underdogs, overcoming a frightful first half to send nun-turned-motivator Sister Jean Delores Schmidt headed to the exits early. The Wolverines trailed the bracket-rambling Ramblers by seven at halftime, found the right gear in the second and have a title-game appearance no one outside of Ann Arbor saw coming when they were middling in the Big Ten just a month ago. Now that they're done playing the favorite for a night, it's back to the underdog role against Villanova. "The whole villain thing, you guys love to write about it, talk about it, but at the end of the day it's just basketball, you know?" Michigan big man Moe Wagner said. "And we just try to win. That's all we do.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Their next task: find some way to slow Villanova's 3-ball roll. The Wildcats were one of the most proficient 3-point shooting teams during the regular season and upped the 3 ante in the NCAA Tournament, knocking down a record 65 and counting. Villanova broke the Final Four record with 13 in the first half and literally shot the lights out by the second, when some scoreboards and upper-level lights briefly went out and darkened the upper decks. "It was one of those nights where we were able to make shots and that's what the lead looks like," said Villanova's Jalen Brunson, who had 18 points and six assists. Advertisement Michigan may have a better answer than the Jayhawks had. Tired of watching victories fizzle away through defensive deficiencies, coach John Beilein made a philosophical change, putting an emphasis on that side of the ball. It's worked out well. Michigan had the nation's No. 3 defense efficiency-wise and put Loyola on lockdown in the second half, forcing the Ramblers into a rash of turnovers to race away. "We always talk about getting the domino going," Loyola coach Porter Moser said. "They closed that gap of opportunity in a hurry." Villanova has a way of doing that, too. The Wolverines may have an answer in Wagner. The German big man carried Michigan through its struggles in the first half by using his size advantage against the smaller Ramblers, snagging five offensive rebounds to notch a double-double by halftime. Wagner finished with 24 points and 15 rebound to join Hakeem Olajuwon and Larry Bird as the only players to have at least 20 points and 15 rebounds in a national semifinal game. "He's unbelievable. He's one of those dynamic scorers from the post, he's a great passer, made some unbelievable passers today with both hands," Villanova assistant coach Ashley Howard said. "He's a guy they can play through. We'll watch tape, try to figure out the best way to approach going into Monday night's game. It's going to be a challenge and we're looking forward to it." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:39 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Michigan has shored up the deficiency that always held it back, becoming one of the nation's best defensive teams, not one of its worst. Out-shooting teams, no longer necessary. This new-found stinginess has the Wolverines within reach of their first national title since Glen Rice and Rumeal Robinson rumbled through the bracket in 1989. But their biggest test yet comes on college basketball's brightest stage: Villanova and its squadron of long-range shooters with a national title on the line. Michigan is good on D, but if the Wildcats shot like they did against Kansas in Saturday night's Final Four nightcap, it may not matter what the Wolverines do. Advertisement "I feel bad for Kansas," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "They're a great team, we just made every shot." Advertisement Michigan (33-7) reached the title game by taking away Cinderella's slipper, sending Loyola-Chicago and Sister Jean home a game short of completing their divine run. Villanova bombed its way past a blueblood to get there. The Wildcats (35-4) turned a Final Four showdown with fellow No. 1 seed Kansas into a laugher, dropping in 3-pointers like they were playing pop-a-shot in the 95-79 rout. Villanova made a Final Four-record 18 3s in a record-matching 40 attempts, its second trip to the title game in three seasons never in doubt. That's an NCAA record 442 from the arc this season — and they're still counting. "That's as good a team as we've played that I can remember," Kansas coach Bill Self said. The third-seeded Wolverines (33-7) had a bit more trouble against the bracket's favorite underdogs, overcoming a frightful first half to send nun-turned-motivator Sister Jean Delores Schmidt headed to the exits early. The Wolverines trailed the bracket-rambling Ramblers by seven at halftime, found the right gear in the second and have a title-game appearance no one outside of Ann Arbor saw coming when they were middling in the Big Ten just a month ago. Now they're done playing the favorite for a night, it's back to the underdog role against Villanova. "The whole villain thing, you guys love to write about it, talk about it, but at the end of the day it's just basketball, you know?" Michigan big man Moe Wagner said. "And we just try to win. That's all we do.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Their next task: Find some way to slow Villanova's 3-ball roll. The Wildcats were one of the most proficient 3-point shooting teams during the regular season and upped the 3 ante in the NCAA Tournament, knocking down a record 65 and counting. Villanova broke the Final Four record with 13 in the first half and literally shot the lights out by the second, when some scoreboards and upper-level lights briefly went out and darkened the upper decks. "It was one of those nights where we were able to make shots and that's what the lead looks like," said Villanova's Jalen Brunson, who had 18 points and six assists. Advertisement Michigan may have a better answer than the Jayhawks had. Tired of watching victories fizzle away through defensive deficiencies, coach John Beilein made a philosophical change, putting an emphasis on that side of the ball. It's worked out well. Michigan had the nation's No. 3 defense efficiency-wise and put Loyola on lockdown in the second half, forcing the Ramblers into a rash of turnovers to race away. "We always talk about getting the domino going," Loyola coach Porter Moser said. "They closed that gap of opportunity in a hurry." Villanova has a way of doing that, too. The Wolverines may have an answer in Wagner. The German big man carried Michigan through its struggles in the first half by using his size advantage against the smaller Ramblers, snagging five offensive rebounds to notch a double-double by halftime. Wagner finished with 24 points and 15 rebound to join Hakeem Olajuwon and Larry Bird as the only players to have at least 20 points and 15 rebounds in a national semifinal game. "He's unbelievable. He's one of those dynamic scorers from the post, he's a great passer, made some unbelievable passers today with both hands," Villanova assistant coach Ashley Howard said. "He's a guy they can play through. We'll watch tape, try to figure out the best way to approach going into Monday night's game. It's going to be a challenge and we're looking forward to it." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 7:57 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Eric Paschall was close to perfect in the Final Four. The Villanova forward became the fifth player to go 10 for 11 or better from the floor in a Final Four game as the Wildcats thrashed Kansas 95-79 on Saturday night to advance to the NCAA Tournament championship against Michigan. Paschall, a junior transfer from Fordham, joins a club with some impressive members. Bill Walton set the standard for all Final Four performances, going 21 for 22 in UCLA's 1973 NCAA championship game against Memphis. Jerry Lucas of Ohio State in 1961, Billy Thompson of Louisville in 1986 and Sean May of North Carolina in 2005 all went 10 for 11 like Paschall. The 6-foot-7 junior's career-high 24 points included 4 for 5 from 3-point range. Paschall shot 28 percent from 3 last season, his first playing for the Wildcats after sitting out the 2015-16 championship year, and then he couldn't buy a bucket from deep early this season. He has found the range since and now is yet another 3-point threat for one of the best shooting teams in the country. The Wildcats set a Final Four record with 18 made 3s against Kansas. "Just working with coaches," Paschall said. "They did a great job of just staying with me, knowing that I was struggling and I didn't really think about it." Advertisement As freshman at Fordham, Paschall was one of the Rams' few weapons. He took a lot of 3-pointers because the team needed that from him, but he made only 31.5 percent. He transferred to Villanova after a coaching change at Fordham. Advertisement "But as soon as we got him as soon as he came, the year he sat out, he worked really hard," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "And he really became a pretty good 3-point shooter. And then he just struggled a little bit. And this summer he was a great 3-point shooter. And in the fall, great. And when he started this season it was unbelievable. He couldn't make a shot. And I know people are saying, 'Why do you let him shoot it?' But we knew, we had seen two years of him shooting the ball extremely well. "So we just said to him: 'Just keep shooting. We know you're a good shooter.'" Paschall came in averaging 10.3 points and 5.3 rebounds per game, but he has stepped it up lately. In the East regional semifinal against West Virginia, he scored 14 points, and in the regional final against Texas Tech, he had 12 points and 14 rebounds.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He's a beast on both ends of the floor," guard Phil Booth said. "He's always been great defensively. Now offensively he's been picking up. It just shows how talented a player he is." Along Omari Spellman, the 6-foot-9 redshirt freshman, Paschall gives Villanova two players big enough to bang in the paint and skilled enough to fit in the Wildcats' free-flowing offense. "Their size and athleticism really makes it difficult," guard Donte DiVencenzo said. "And their ability to step out and knock down 3s just opens it up for everybody else to get downhill, get in the lane. Get in the lane, make plays for one another and when you have it going like that you can play small and you can play big. "You can play Eric at the 5. Or you can play Eric at the 4 and Omari at the 5 and you don't lose anything." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 7:50 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - It was "goal accomplished" for an upbeat Jordan Spieth as he headed off to Augusta National after finishing in a share of third at the Houston Open on Sunday. The final result was always going to matter less to Spieth than his form heading into the U.S. Masters, which starts on Thursday. The 2015 Masters champion arrived in Houston looking to find his swing and putting stroke and, with the exception of a mundane third round, showed clear improvement as the week progressed. He even flirted with contention on Sunday before carding six-under-par 66 to finish three strokes behind winner Ian Poulter, who beat Beau Hossler in a playoff. Advertisement "Starting four back on a very gettable golf course, you kind of need a really flawless round (to have a chance of winning)," Spieth told NBC after nailing a 30-foot par putt dead center at the final hole at Golf Club of Houston. Advertisement "I had an opportunity to shoot eight or nine under. I’m very pleased with my six-under," said the three-times major winner. "Goal accomplished for the week." Most pleasing for Spieth on Sunday was his short putting, which has been a weak link in his game recently.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "On and around the greens I’ve been looking for what’s been off," said the Texan. "Today was able to have pressure-packed putts where I trusted what I have been working on from the beginning of the week and it still looked good to me and the ball started on line. "That combination is how I get back to the putting I’m used to seeing. I’ll just try to nail it in the next few days." Spieth acknowledged he would probably would need further improvement to have a chance of a second green jacket, but was optimistic. "I've made some big strides from my last couple of tournaments so I'm very excited for what next week holds," he said. (Reporting by Andrew Both in Cary, North Carolina, editing by Nick Mulvenney) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Wordplay  By                     
 DEB AMLEN
 
APRIL 1, 2018
 MONDAY PUZZLE — When we last saw Jason Mueller, he was busy spilling the beans on the real identity of a famous person, and today he takes us on a tour of a city that he says he’s never even visited. Stay with the group, please. This could get messy. Mr. Mueller hits some of the big spots in the world capital of PARIS, FRANCE. The theme is built on cross-referenced clues, which means that solvers will need to know the answer to 62A, because that’s how the theme clues are worded (“62-Across landmark” for EIFFEL TOWER, for example). Fortunately, the crossings around 62A are kind, so most should suss out the “World capital” revealer quickly. One thing I really liked about this was the extra French flavor in the clues outside the theme, like “Dôme DES Invalides (historic church)” and “St. Genevieve, for 62-Across,” or PATRON saint of Paris in the Roman Catholic Church. Advertisement If you get itchy feet and want to explore beyond Mr. Mueller’s PARIS, there’s always the Grand TOUR around Europe. Advertisement There are a lot of ways to get started in Mr. Mueller’s puzzle. I hopped on board at the fill-in-the-blank clues at 41A (Artoo-DETOO), 56A’s ALOE vera and NONE of the above at 38D. There are other gimmes depending on your wheelhouse, and the only speed bump I ran into was when I really wanted AD AGE for 8D’s AD WEEK and couldn’t think of the other publication. I wanted to get a good number and variety of landmarks in this puzzle and, with five well-known places plus a revealer, I think I did just that. The fill is solid, with SAFETY NET, KING MINOS and NERF GUN providing some pizazz. Also, I’ve never been to Paris. Almost finished solving but just need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered. Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription. Your thoughts? We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Kaya Genc Mr. Genc is an essayist and novelist. He lives in Istanbul. ISTANBUL — Earlier this year, Turkey opened its closely guarded population register, a monumental archive of lineages going back to Ottoman times. A website that gives access to all public services in Turkey now includes a genealogy tab. Users can download ancestry documents, with records going as far back as 1882. Since the appearance of the new service, roots, migration, purity and hybridity have dominated the conversation in WhatsApp groups, offices and tea shops. In just two days, over 5 million Turks went looking for their heritage on the register. Interest was so intense that for a few hours the website collapsed. The government was forced to stop the service for several days. For a century, the Turkish state imposed a rigid national identity on its citizens, one that excluded ethnicity and underscored “pure” Turkishness. The government’s opening of its records has mesmerized people. As Turks absorb the news of their own ethnic diversity, the century-old idea of racial purity, manufactured and imposed by the state, has begun to crumble. Some Turks, especially those whose families have lived in the same towns for generations, have found reaffirmation in the proof of their own deep roots. Others are frustrated. One Turkish nationalist learned that his great-grandmother was of Kurdish origin. A writer friend was surprised to discover her great-grandfather’s name was Isaac. One of my neighbors found out she had European roots and decided to apply for dual citizenship. For a long time, ethnic identity was considered a matter of national security in Turkey. Most Ottoman Armenians lost their lives in forced deportations in 1915, while others converted to Islam to survive. Conversions were kept secret within families; many grandchildren of Christian converts learned of their ancestry as adults. Many Turks discovered they had Armenian family ties just recently. The genealogy data is offered only for private use, and it reveals how meticulously the Turkish state has been keeping track of its citizens over the past two centuries. “It turns out my maternal ancestry is from Yerevan,” a user wrote on the website Eksi Sozluk, where thousands of comments have appeared on the issue. “My paternal ancestry meanwhile is Georgian. I am in shock.” Turkish leftists were disturbed by the interest in genealogy, fearing it could lead to tribalism, even civil war. But the editor of the Armenian weekly Agos welcomed it. He interviewed an anthropology professor who called the move “revolutionary,” and “a serious sign of normalization” in debunking the imaginary ethnic purity of Turkish nationalism. Indeed, a 2012 study in the journal Annals of Human Genetics found that Turkey’s paternal ancestry was 38 percent European, 35 percent Middle Eastern, 18 percent South Asian and 9 percent Central Asian. Ottomans dealt with the complexities of ethnicity through what they called the millet system. For centuries, different rules applied to Muslims, Catholics, Greek Orthodox and Jews. Religious communities could do business freely, and run their own schools, newspapers and hospitals so long as they paid taxes to the sultan. But in the 1830s, modernizers of the Ottoman Empire introduced a westernized concept of citizenship and did away with the millet system. A group of Muslim intellectuals, known as the Young Ottomans, fiercely opposed the reforms. In the 1870s, the group introduced the concept of Ottomanism, promoting a single imperial citizenship that combined Islamic law with principles inspired by European constitutionalism. They propounded the idea of Muslim nationalism: Sunni Islam would be the sovereign identity, while granting freedoms to other religions. If the Sunni character of the state was lost, the Young Ottomans felt, the empire might disintegrate. Ottomanism was their formula to keep it intact. As the pace of modernization increased in the early twentieth century, the problem of genealogical complexity snowballed: Secular and westernizing Young Turks and founders of the Turkish republic tweaked Muslim nationalism into a citizenship based on the French idea of laïcité, the separation of religious influence from government. They tried to solve the problem of ethnic complexity, sometimes through force: A population exchange in 1923 resulted in the denaturalization of more than 1.2 million Greeks in Turkey and more than 300,000 Turks in Greece. The tiny number of Greeks and Armenians who continued to live in Turkey were told to forget their roots. Over the 1940s, following the death of Atatürk, racist clubs in Turkey tweaked this nationalism further and forged a “pure Turkish” national identity. Turks, in their view, came from the plains of Central Asia, Kurds were “mountain Turks” and any other ethnic influences were considered deviant and dangerous. Both leftists and Islamists repudiated this combination of a mono-ethnic nation state and modernity, and the Kemalist state punished both groups. The Marxist poet Nazım Hikmet was sentenced to 28 years in prison; the Islamist thinker and poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy spent a decade in exile in Egypt for questioning Turkish nationalism. Many nationalists have viewed Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s composite of conservatism and neoliberalism as a threat to Turkish national identity since his Justice and Development Party, known as the A.K.P., came to power in 2002. But Mr. Erdogan’s government was praised by others for allowing historians to openly discuss the history of Ottoman Armenians and for lifting restrictions on Kurdish culture. Under Mr. Erdogan, national identity based on “pure Turkishness” has been gradually replaced by the Muslim nationalism of the Young Ottomans. Leaders of the A.K.P. believe that erasing religion and ethnicity from Turkey’s national identity would repeat the mistakes of the Ottoman modernizers in the 1830s. By throwing open the population register, the Turkish government — unwittingly — might have changed our ideas of Turkish nationhood and ended the myth of racial purity for good. The timing of the new access to the public’s ancestry is indeed part of a political calculation. In the wake of Turkey’s military operation in Afrin in northern Syria and with presidential elections coming in 2019, the government is hoping to further consolidate Muslim nationalism as the central Turkish identity. It is the A.K.P.’s way of saying Muslim nationalism is different from republican nationalism: the state, in its new embrace of Islam, has the confidence to allow citizens to discover their ethnic roots. Turkish citizens can be proud of their heritage and roots, and even find there a rationale of the Turkish government’s foreign policy moves. Dust-covered registry archives are meant to remind Turks not only of the broad diversity of their ancestors, but also of the territorial expanse of the Ottoman Empire, a dominion that once spanned three continents. Kaya Genc, an essayist and novelist, is the author of “Under the Shadow: Rage and Revolution in Modern Turkey.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Op-Docs newsletter. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By CHARLES McDERMIDAPRIL 1, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Pope Francis calls for peace, Kim Jong-un takes in some K-pop, and Tesla faces more trouble. Here’s what you need to know: • President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a “dangerous” flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement. His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s hard-line stance on immigration. _____ • In Afghanistan, the Taliban are increasingly attacking security forces using night-vision goggles and lasers that U.S. military officials said were either stolen from Afghan and international troops or bought on the black market. And a retired U.S. lieutenant general who led the war effort in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005 said advanced equipment, like drones and precision weapons, is being seized by extremist groups in other global conflict zones. Advertisement “It’s going to change how we operate,” he said. _____ • “For every 10 killed, 20 more will join.” Advertisement That was a protester in the Kashmir Valley on Sunday, after the Indian Army killed at least 12 militants. It was the largest one-day toll of insurgents in recent years, in a brutal territorial conflict between India and Pakistan that has endured for decades. At least three soldiers and four civilians also died, and about 70 other people were reported wounded. _____ • Tesla appears to be in real trouble. Concerns that Elon Musk’s electric-car company is burning through cash have damaged its credit rating and raised questions about whether it could run out of money by the end of the year. And its stock fell in after-hours trading last week, after Tesla disclosed that a fatal crash in California on March 23 occurred while Autopilot, its semiautonomous driving system, above, was engaged. _____ • Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace. He cited a need to end the “carnage” in “the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria” and urged “reconciliation” in the Middle East. The pope also pressed for “the fruits of dialogue” to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula, above, where 10,000 Christians gathered in Seoul to pray. At St. Andrew’s Cathedral in Sydney, Australia, the Anglican archbishop Glenn Davies said the redemption of Easter gave hope of forgiveness to all who faced moral failure — including the disgraced Australia cricket team. • Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazon’s Alexa Super Bowl ad.) Advertisement • Eight years after Live Nation merged with Ticketmaster, bringing together the world’s largest concert promoter with the world’s leading ticket provider, U.S. regulators are looking into accusations that the company uses threats and pressure to rule ticketing. • “Ready Player One,” Steven Spielberg’s nostalgia-soaked science-fiction adventure, took in more than $181 million on its debut weekend. Chinese ticket buyers turned out in particular force. • Facebook’s latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending  growth at any cost — even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.) • The list of Chinese products that will be hit with new U.S. tariffs is expected to be announced within days. Here are other headlines to watch for this week. • Markets are closed in Australia, Hong Kong, London and Milan. Here’s a snapshot of other global markets. • North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and South Korea’s culture minister, Do Jong-hwan, were in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times] • “Like a Dream.” The Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai made an emotional return home to Pakistan’s Swat Valley, where the Taliban tried to kill her in 2012. [The New York Times] • The U.N. announced new measures against North Korea, blacklisting 27 ships, 21 shipping companies and one individual accused of helping the North evade sanctions. [The New York Times] Advertisement • Israel warned that it would target groups inside Gaza if violence along the border continued. On Friday, at least 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire. [The New York Times] • A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old Filipina maid, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Agence France-Presse] • The Chinese space lab Tiangong-1 is expected to burn into Earth’s atmosphere within hours. Here’s a look at the rise and fall of China’s first space station. [The New York Times] • April Fools’ Day on the internet: Australia’s public broadcaster navigated some of this year’s biggest joke headlines, including “drop bears” and chocolate burgers. [ABC] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Working out is great for you. Here’s how to start. • For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes. • Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo. • Why would a 70 year old kayak across the Atlantic Ocean (for the third time)? “To feel alive,” said the man who did it. • A landmark ruling in Israel allows babies to be conceived from frozen embryos or sperm of people who have died. But is it ethical? Advertisement • And “The Last Wild Men of Borneo” by Carl Hoffman tells the stories of an environmental activist accepted by an indigenous tribe as one of its own, and a man who became one of the world’s most successful tribal art collectors. The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House. The tradition dates to 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929. The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature activity, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling. “The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan,” The Times noted last year. Guests receive a souvenir wooden egg as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and they’re also available for sale online. The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today. Karen Zraick contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.  And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.  Advertisement Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ERICA L. GREENAPRIL 1, 2018
 WASHINGTON — The organization at the center of one of the largest fraud scandals in the history of for-profit colleges is planning a comeback. The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools was stripped of its powers in December 2016 amid the collapse of two for-profit university chains, where tens of thousands of students were encouraged to take on hundreds of millions in debt based on false promises, including jobs after graduation. The ordeal left thousands of students stranded, and many have since flooded the Education Department with applications for relief from student loan debt. The Obama administration approved about 32,000 claims totaling $449 million. Now, that same accrediting council is asking to be reinstated by the Trump administration as a federal gatekeeper for hundreds of degree-granting programs and billions of dollars in federal funds. Advertisement The move comes as the accrediting agency continues to be the target of criticism. Last week, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the outspoken chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, singled it out when he charged that for-profit accreditation boards were running “visa mills” used by foreign students to come to the United States with minimal scrutiny. Advertisement Michelle Edwards, the council’s president and chief executive, said that two of the schools mentioned in Mr. Grassley’s letter had already had their recognition revoked for failing to meet financial requirements, but that the agency’s criteria do not focus on matters relating to student visas. The council’s prospective return has outraged student and consumer protection advocates, who worry that it would signal that predatory institutions will be allowed to flourish in the for-profit-friendly administration of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos. Advising Ms. DeVos are several executives from the for-profit sector, one of whom reportedly helped the council navigate the application process. Ms. DeVos has halted Obama-era regulations that sought to hold for-profit institutions accountable for their poor outcomes, but were denounced by the sector as overly broad and punitive. And she has revamped the process for approving debt relief for defrauded students, granting only some partial relief. “If they reverse this decision, it will tell accreditors that you can fight back and politically try to retain your eligibility,” said Robert Shireman, a former deputy under secretary at the Education Department who is now a senior fellow at the Century Foundation, a liberal research organization. “And more important, it will tell accreditors that there are no consequences if you do a horrible job.” Higher education in the United States is largely decentralized, dependent on about 75 regional, national and specialized accrediting agencies to serve as watchdogs for postsecondary institutions that have access to federal student aid. The agencies are relied upon to regularly evaluate the quality of institutions to ensure they comply with federal education law. The accreditors are responsible for flagging and penalizing schools that do not. Most public, private and nonprofit higher education institutions are regionally accredited, while national and specialized accreditors tend to draw for-profit and trade schools. To receive federal financial aid funding, schools must be accredited by an Education Department-recognized agency. The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools was responsible for about 240 institutions that received $4.7 billion in taxpayer money when it came under scrutiny in 2015. For-profit accreditation has faced scrutiny dating back to the early years of the G.I. Bill, when the institutions were accused of preying on veterans who received large sums of federal education funding when they returned from war. Advertisement But it had been decades since the for-profit sector felt as targeted as it did under the Obama administration, industry leaders say. And they contend that a reinstatement of the banished accrediting council could remedy the unfair treatment meted out by the previous White House. A federal judge recently ruled that the department had acted “arbitrarily and capriciously” in determining the council’s fate. “All we have ever asked for is due process and fairness,” said Steve Gunderson, a former Republican congressman who leads the trade organization Career Education Colleges and Universities. “We now hope the current secretary will recognize the need to work with A.C.I.C.S. and the schools impacted by this ruling.” The independent advisory committee that vets accrediting bodies, called the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity, will consider the council’s application in May, just a few weeks before dozens of schools serving at least 100,000 students that are still operating under its purview will lose accreditation. The chairman of the bipartisan committee is Arthur Keiser, a political appointee who challenged the panel’s original recommendation to terminate the council’s recognition. He also formerly ran a for-profit college, Keiser University, that settled claims of misrepresentation before he sold it to a nonprofit organization started by his family.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Obama administration revoked the agency’s accrediting power after it had racked up nearly two dozen violations in federal quality and accountability standards. In a letter rendering its decision, the department said it was not confident that the agency could address all of its problems in one year. Officials at the council say it has made more than 50 improvements. “Today, as a result of these changes, we are a fundamentally different agency and, I believe, a better one,” Ms. Edwards, the council’s president, said in a statement. Consumer protection and student advocates are unconvinced. “I think it’s an awfully bold claim that a fundamentally flawed agency can erase years of misbehavior in a matter of months,” said Ben Miller, an Obama administration official who is now the senior director of postsecondary education at the liberal Center for American Progress, and who has tracked the council’s progress. “It really has the feel as if someone went on a diet for a week and said, ‘Look, I’ve completely changed my lifestyle.’” For years, the accrediting body gave its seal of approval to institutions plagued by complaints, and oversaw for-profit schools that had some of the lowest graduation rates in the country and some of the highest rates of student loan defaults. It accredited Corinthian Colleges even as it was declaring bankruptcy in 2015, and the agency did not pull the accreditation of ITT Technical Institute until after the federal advisory panel recommended the termination of the council’s recognition. Advertisement Ms. Edwards said the organization had overhauled its governance structure to eliminate conflicts of interest. It established an ethics committee, created a group to monitor complaints and identify at-risk institutions, and strengthened data collection by requiring campuses to file quarterly and annual accountability reports. “We are ready for the scrutiny because we believe today’s A.C.I.C.S. fully meets the criteria to be recognized by the department,” she said. In a letter to the Education Department, 20 state attorneys general disagreed. The officials wrote that the council had been found to be out of compliance with federal standards as recently as February 2017, and therefore does not meet the requirement that an agency demonstrate effective compliance for at least two years before seeking initial recognition. “Given the gravity of A.C.I.C.S.’s recent dereliction and the magnitude of the harm A.C.I.C.S. caused to students and taxpayers, any attempt by A.C.I.C.S. to become nationally recognized once again should be treated with great skepticism by the department,” the letter read. The agency’s application became public only after a lawsuit by the Century Foundation, and critics who have scrutinized the application said the council failed to demonstrate that it had put in place more rigorous standards. In  a letter to the department, the foundation, which combed through more than 20,000 pages of application materials, said that the bulk of the agency’s letters of support had come from institutions that it accredited. But in a break for its application, Judge Reggie B. Walton of United States District Court for the District of Columbia ruled on March 23 that the Obama administration had failed to take into account 36,000 pages of relevant supplemental information as it deliberated the agency’s fate in 2016. Judge Walton wrote that former Education Secretary John King’s “decision-making process was flawed.” The judgment did not overturn the Obama Education Department’s decision, or weigh in on whether it was justified, but sent the case to Ms. DeVos to reconsider. The judge’s action was cheered by for-profit agencies that had long complained that the Obama administration targeted the accrediting organization unfairly. “Yes, our sector has had bad schools like every sector of higher education,” Mr. Gunderson said. “But it is time that everyone across the political spectrum stop, step back and look for ways to work together to establish public policies that treat all sectors of higher education on a fair and equal basis. The ideological wars must end.” A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Organization Oversaw For-Profit Colleges That Imploded. Now It Seeks a Comeback.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THOMAS GIBBONS-NEFF and JAWAD SUKHANYARAPRIL 1, 2018
 WASHINGTON — Once described as an ill-equipped band of insurgents, the Taliban are increasingly attacking security forces across Afghanistan using night-vision goggles and lasers that United States military officials said were either stolen from Afghan and international troops or bought on the black market. The devices allow the Taliban to maneuver on forces under the cover of darkness as they track the whirling blades of coalition helicopters, the infrared lasers on American rifles, or even the bedtime movements of local police officers. With this new battlefield visibility, the Taliban more than doubled nighttime attacks from 2014 to 2017, according to one United States military official who described internal Pentagon data on the condition of anonymity. The number of Afghans who were wounded or killed during nighttime attacks during that period nearly tripled. That has forced American commanders to rethink the limited access they give Afghan security forces to the night-vision devices. Commanders now worry that denying the expensive equipment to those forces puts them at a technological disadvantage, with potentially lethal consequences. Advertisement For years, American commanders have been reluctant to give night-vision equipment to rank-and-file Afghan soldiers and police officers out of concern of widespread corruption among those forces. The devices — headsets and infrared lasers — are usually given only to elite Afghan commandos and police special mission units, according to American military officials. Advertisement As some of this equipment falls into Taliban hands, the militants are joining a larger trend, said David W. Barno, a retired lieutenant general who led the war effort in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005. Advanced equipment, such as drones and precision weapons, is being seized by other extremist groups in other global conflict zones, he said. “It’s going to be a problem,” Mr. Barno said, “and it’s going to change how we operate.” With the spread of the devices, infantry units on patrols have been told not to use certain marking devices that can be seen only by night-vision equipment. Helicopter crews have been made distinctly aware that their aircraft are no longer cloaked by darkness. In one case last November, Taliban fighters wearing night-vision goggles attacked a police outpost in Farah Province, in western Afghanistan. By the time the predawn assault was over, eight Afghan officers lay dead in their beds, Haji Abdul Rahman Aka, the elder of the province’s Pule Regi area, said at the time. Only one Afghan officer survived. The frequency and ferocity of the nighttime Taliban attacks are linked to attempts by Afghan forces, based in small checkpoints across the country, to hold territory that has been wrested away from the militants. Previously unreported documents, obtained by The New York Times, underline concerns about the Taliban’s growing sophistication on the battlefield after 16 years of war — and American commanders’ efforts to stunt it. The documents show that the American military has begun to send older models of night-vision hardware to regular Afghan Army units. Those headsets cost an estimated $3,000 each, officials said. One of the first batches of night-vision equipment for conventional units in southern Afghanistan, part of a monthslong pilot program, was sent to the embattled 215th Corps in Helmand Province in the spring of 2016. Advertisement Only 161 of the 210 devices were returned, according to the military documents obtained by The Times, and the equipment was not effectively used, in part because the forces were not properly trained to use it. Afghan troops said the missing devices were reported as “battle losses,” but could not support that claim with any proof or records to explain where or when they were left behind, according to the documents. At the time, the commander of the 215th Corps was Maj. Gen. M. Moein Faqir. He was later arrested on sweeping corruption charges that included misuse of food money meant for his troops. What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Last year, and with better results, night-vision equipment was sent to the 205th Corps, located around Kandahar, the military documents showed. Five devices were lost between July and December, when the program ended, according to the documents. Over the summer and fall, the Afghan National Army suffered 15 percent fewer casualties around Kandahar than it had during the same period in 2016. The documents credited the night-vision equipment for the marked reduction, concluding that the devices are “becoming an integral part of base defense plans.” The American military is now planning to equip the unit with roughly 2,500 night-vision goggles as part of what the documents described as a concept for a “permanent program.” Despite those measured successes, it remains unclear if the American military will give the devices to the rest of the Afghan Army. The American military headquarters in Kabul has said it equips only Special Operations units in the Afghan Army and police forces with night-vision technology. Advertisement Capt. Tom Gresback, a spokesman for United States forces in Afghanistan, declined to comment on the plans to distribute the devices to the Afghan National Army, as outlined in the military documents. He said American commanders would provide Afghan national defense and security forces “with the resources necessary to promote security throughout Afghanistan.” But some American advisers closer to the ground fight are already trying to get the technology for their Afghan counterparts, according to a United States official. He said that would require a decision made through the leadership in Kabul and the Pentagon to allow American commanders to distribute the devices to even more Afghan security forces. With the night-vision devices, Taliban fighters have been able to approach Afghan bases nearly undetected before attacking. Initially, such ambushes were attributed to Taliban forces known as “Red Units” located in Afghanistan’s southern provinces. But over the last year, the night-vision devices have frequently turned up in the country’s north and east, according to two American military officials, signaling a widespread distribution into other groups of Taliban fighters. Those officials said the Taliban were using both tightly controlled American-made devices and gear that is widely available for purchase. In some cases, American officials said, the equipment was left on the battlefield by United States or Afghan troops, including those who were killed in action. In others, Afghan soldiers are believed to have sold the devices to the extremists. That was disputed by Gen. Dawlat Waziri, who until recently served as spokesman for the Afghan Ministry of Defense. He said all night-vision equipment provided to Afghan troops by the American military had been “accounted for.” “No case of night vision sold by our soldiers to the Taliban has been reported,” General Waziri said. Zabihullah Mujahid, a spokesman for the Taliban, said fighters obtained night-vision devices after attacking Afghan bases or capturing members of the Afghan security forces. Advertisement Rank-and-file Afghan police officers are particularly under threat by increasing numbers of deadly nighttime attacks, said one of the American military officials. Those units are spread farther into sparsely populated areas across Afghanistan than are army soldiers. Officers with the Afghan National Police, especially in the south, have been making desperate requests for the equipment for months, the official said. The police are part of the Ministry of Interior, which is suspected of rampant corruption. In Helmand Province, Marine Corps advisers are helping a request by the 505th Zone of the Afghan National Police to receive night-vision devices, Col. C.J. Douglas, the head of the Marines’ police advising component there, said in an email. It is unclear if the Afghan police unit will get them. Thomas Gibbons-Neff reported from Washington and Jawad Sukhanyar from Kabul. Taimoor Shah contributed from Kandahar, Afghanistan. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Taliban’s Move Into High Tech  Puts U.S. in Bind.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Jack Nicas SAN FRANCISCO — Ryan Knight, a Democratic activist in Los Angeles, called for a boycott of Apple in February because it hadn’t responded to calls to delete a channel from the National Rifle Association from its streaming-video service after the Parkland, Fla., school shooting. “Dear @Apple,” Mr. Knight wrote on Twitter. “Your silence is deafening. #BoycottApple.” More than 330 accounts retweeted the message. How did Mr. Knight post the message? He used an iPhone. As the reach and influence of Silicon Valley’s tech giants have increased, so have the calls to boycott their products and services. The problem is that pulling off a boycott is not exactly easy: The tech companies’ products are so pervasive that they are difficult to avoid. That issue was crystallized in recent weeks with Facebook. Hundreds of people deleted their accounts after revelations that the political-data firm Cambridge Analytica had improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Yet many of those same people promptly instructed their friends to find them on Instagram, which is owned by — you guessed it — Facebook. “It’s exactly the same company. I realize it’s ridiculous,” said Sachi Cunningham, a documentary filmmaker in San Francisco who deactivated her Facebook last week and shifted her attention to Instagram, where, she said, the conversation is less toxic. Ms. Cunningham, who has freelanced for The New York Times, added that she had immediately begun missing Facebook as a research tool for her documentaries. “I don’t know if I can get out of the ecosystem,” she said. People looking to punish major tech companies by abstaining from their products have been bedeviled time and again by the difficulty in escaping them. After Google fired an engineer, James Damore, for criticizing the company’s diversity efforts last year, hundreds of people on social media called for a boycott of the company. But an analysis of nearly 7,000 tweets using the hashtag #BoycottGoogle since August showed that 26 percent of the tweets came from devices using Google’s Android software, according to Keyhole, a social-media research firm. One Twitter account named Milton Prescott tweeted on Aug. 8: “Google’s firing of James Damore proves his point completely. I will no longer be using Google for any services. #BoycottGoogle.” The tweet came from an Android device. A message to the account went unreturned. Even Breitbart is running into the same dilemma. The conservative website is planning to host a panel on how tech platforms like Facebook suppress conservative voices — and it said it would livestream the discussion on Facebook. Breitbart didn’t respond to a request for comment. Marisa Richardson, a program manager at a life-sciences company, said she began boycotting Amazon recently after learning that it offered the NRA channel on its streaming-video service. So when she needed laundry detergent, she avoided the e-commerce site and instead braved the crowds and traffic — and spent a few dollars more — at a nearby Target. But a few days later she shopped at the Whole Foods near her home in Oakland, Calif. “I completely forgot that they’re owned by Amazon,” she said. After the shooting in Parkland in February, gun-control activists called for a boycott of certain Apple and Amazon services because they hosted the NRA channel. People used the hashtag #March1NRABoycott to spread the message on social media. An analysis of about 58,500 tweets with the hashtag showed that nearly half came from an iPhone or an iPad, according to Keyhole. Those included popular tweets using the #March1NRABoycott hashtag from the actress Alyssa Milano. “Had I sent the same tweets from an Android phone, the same issue would apply. There is an NRATV app for Android phones,” Ms. Milano said through a spokeswoman. “We are only just beginning to understand how these companies have infiltrated not only our ideologies, but also our lives in the most in-depth way imaginable.” Nearly a third of the 4,700 tweets using the #BoycottApple hashtag since August came from iPhones, according to Keyhole. “I do have an iPhone, but as a customer of Apple’s, am I not allowed to hold them accountable?” Mr. Knight, the activist who used an iPhone to call for an Apple boycott, said in an interview. Eddy Cue, a senior executive at Apple, recently said that the NRA channel didn’t violate the company’s policies. Facebook, Google and Amazon didn’t respond to requests for comment. Many of those who recently abandoned their Facebook accounts are still in the company’s orbit, not only with Instagram but also with the company’s popular messaging apps WhatsApp and Messenger. When Cher recently deleted her Facebook page, she said on Twitter, “2day I did something VERY HARD 4 me.” But her Instagram account, with 768,000 followers, was still active. Likewise, Elon Musk, chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla, deleted the Facebook pages of both companies — but left their pages and his personal account active on Instagram. The photo-sharing platform, he said on Twitter, is fine “so long as it stays fairly independent.” Stephen Cox, 39, a woodworker in Los Angeles, recently posted on Facebook that he was deactivating his account in favor of Instagram. When someone commented that the two sites were owned by the same company, he replied, “It’s a double-edged sword, but for me one edge is slightly more blunt than the other.” Instagram has proved an effective hedge for Facebook against people losing interest or trust in its main site. While the percentage of American adults who use Facebook has remained flat at 68 percent since 2016, according to a January survey of 2,002 American adults by the Pew Research Center, Instagram use rose to 35 percent from 28 percent over that period. Instagram is also more popular with younger people than older people, according to the survey. Rayven Bruzzese, 26, a sign-language student in Philadelphia, said she had been a frequent user of Facebook for years but deleted her account in March because she found it upsetting and a drain on her time. Now she spends her time on Instagram. While she acknowledged the irony of moving to another Facebook-owned service, she said her options were limited. Few of her friends are on Twitter, and many have stopped using Snapchat. “Where am I supposed to go?” she said. “I wish there was something else.” Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicas.     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 6:45 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Jay Wright's custom-tailored suits are as sharp as Villanova's 3-point shooting. The game-day attire for Michigan coach John Beilein is more reflective of his team's emphasis on old-school fundamentals and defense. "At the end of the game tomorrow, he'll still look like George Clooney and I will look like Columbo by Peter Falk," Beilein said Sunday. "I'd like to say Kevin Costner, but I can't go there." For their drastically different styles, both in dress and how their teams play, one of them will be national champions Monday night. Wright will either get his second title in three seasons, or the 65-year-old Beilein his first in 40 seasons as a college head coach. Villanova (35-4), the No. 1 seed from the East Region, has set records for making 3-pointers — both for the season (454), the NCAA Tournament (66) and their 18 in the national semifinal game against fellow No. 1 seed Kansas. Advertisement The title game in the Alamodome will be the first time in this NCAA Tournament that the third-seeded Wolverines (33-7) face a top-5 seed. They beat the Nos. 14, 6, 7 and 9 seeds in the West Region before overcoming a 10-point deficit after halftime Saturday night to be Loyola-Chicago, only the fourth No. 11 seed to ever make to the Final Four. Advertisement Loyola made only 1 of 10 3s against the nation's No. 3 defense in terms of efficiency. After Kris Jenkins hit a buzzer-beating 3-pointer against North Carolina to win the national championship two years ago, Villanova's first since 1985 under Rollie Massimino, the now 56-year-old Wright noticed people looking at him differently. "Mostly positively. But sometimes if you don't handle it well they look at you negatively. They just look at you a lot more. You just get a lot more attention," said Wright, in his 17th season at Villanova after seven years at Hofstra. Beilein has an impressive coaching resume with 799 wins when including all his previous stops — at Erie Community College in New York, Nazareth, LeMoyne, Canisius, Richmond and West Virginia. Missing is a national title. Of course, Beilein would love to have a championship — the Wolverines made to the 2013 title game and lost to Louisville. Louisville was later forced to vacate that 2013 title because of NCAA sanctions in the wake of an embarrassing sex scandal. It was the first time a Division I men's basketball program was stripped of a national championship. Going into his 1,260th game as a head coach, Beilein doesn't anticipate that winning a title, or not, will change how he sees his career. "You hang in there and you just do your absolute best every single day. And someday you're going to say, I gave it everything I had, and if I'm falling into my grave, that's OK too," Beilein said. But you just do everything you can to be the best coach, the best mentor, the best teacher, the best husband, the grandfather, father every day, and you go do it again. And that's all I want to be."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Michigan is in its seventh national title game. The Wolverines have won only one, beating Seton Hall in overtime in 1989. Since his first coaching job as an assistant coach at Division III Rochester in 1984, Wright has been crossing paths with Beilein, who at the time was at LeMoyne College, also in New York. Wright said Beilein had an advantage in recruiting back then because he could offer scholarships while Wright could not. Advertisement "You'd be on a guy and you'd just hope you wouldn't see John in the gym. And like, in April, he'd pop in and he'd see you," Wright said. "You'd say, 'Are you going to take him, John?' He goes, 'Yeah, I'm sorry but we're going to take him." They coached against each other in the Big East, after Wright got to Villanova and when West Virginia was still in that league. These Wolverines with 6-foot-11 Moe Wagner are similar to some of Beilein's teams at West Virginia, like the ones that made back-to-back NCAA Tournament appearances more than a decade ago with big man Kevin Pittsnogle. "They remind me of John's West Virginia teams. Wagner kind of reminds me of a modern-day Pittsnogle, thinned down, eating healthier, a little more skilled," Wright said. After Michigan wrapped up the first national semifinal game Saturday by finally putting away Loyola, the favorite underdogs with Sister Jean on their side, Beilein didn't get a chance to tune into the Villanova game until after halftime. By then, the Wildcats had already matched the Final Four single-game record with 13 of their 3s. They had a double-digit lead throughout after jumping ahead 14-4 in the first 4 minutes and added 10 more points before Kansas scored again. "I'm sure glad I didn't get to see it," Beilein said. "It was an offensive clinic against a very good defensive team." On Monday night, it will be up to Beilein's very good defense to try to prevent another one. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 8:09 P.M. E.D.T.
 HUMBLE, Texas —  Ian Poulter delivered another big moment Sunday, this one for himself. Down to his last putt, Poulter made a 20-foot birdie on the 18th hole to force a playoff with Beau Hossler, and then he won the Houston Open with a par on the first extra hole to earn the last spot in the Masters. One week after Poulter was mistakenly told he had locked up a spot at Augusta National through the world ranking, he left no doubt by winning with a clutch moment reminiscent of his Ryder Cup heroics from Medinah in 2012. "I had to dig deep today," said Poulter, who closed with a 5-under 67. Hossler, who also shot 67, overcame a three-shot deficit with four straight birdies on the back nine. He had a chance to win on the 18th in regulation with a 30-foot birdie putt that trickled over the right edge of the cup. That set the stage for Poulter, and the 42-year-old from England lived up to his nickname as "The Postman" by delivering his biggest putt in years. Poulter pounded his chest five times when the putt dropped, and all Hossler could do was smile. Advertisement "I did think I'd made it," Hossler said, "but it hung out there. Ian basically had the same putt and there's no way he was going to miss it after watching my ball. I gave Ian the perfect read (for him) to make his putt. I knew he was going to make it." Advertisement In the sudden-death playoff on the 18th, one of the more daunting finishing holes off the tee with water down the left side and a bunker to the right, Hossler found the bunker for the second time. He hit into a greenside bunker, and his third shot caught way too much ball and went over the green and into the water. Poulter was safely on the green as Hossler took his penalty drop, chipped onto the green and took two putts for a triple bogey. They finished at 19-under 269. Poulter won for the third time on the PGA Tour, and his first in America since the Match Play in 2010 at Arizona. This was his first stroke-play victory in America, and the timing could not have been better. When he reached the quarterfinals of the Dell Technologies Match Play last weekend in Austin, he was told that it was enough to get him into the top 50 in the world ranking by the end of the weekend, the cutoff for qualifying for the Masters. It turned out he needed to win his quarterfinal match, and Poulter was informed of the mistake before he teed off. Kevin Kisner beat him, 8 and 6.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Poulter was so disappointed that he contemplated not even going to Houston, and when he opened with a 73 in a first round of low scoring, he packed his bags and prepared to go home to Florida the next day. Instead, he bounced back with a 64, and shot 65-67 on the weekend. "Last week was painful," he said. "To come here this week, I was tired. I was frustrated on Thursday. ... I was patient. I waited my time. And this is amazing." It was his first victory since the HSBC Champions, a World Golf Championship event at Mission Hills in China in 2012. That was a month after Poulter led Europe to a stunning turnaround in the Ryder Cup by making five straight birdies to win a fourballs match and give Europe momentum to overcome a four-point deficit. Advertisement Along with going to the Masters, Poulter cracks the top 30 in the world and now is in good shape to be eligible for the rest of the majors. He also has a two-year exemption, critical because he nearly lost his card a year ago until he was spared by a clerical error by the tour. "The journey continues. I've had 19 good years on tour and I guess I've got another couple coming," Poulter said. "I think I've got some good golf left in me. I think I proved it this week. So there's life in the old dog yet." Hossler did everything right until the playoff. His four straight birdies included a 30-footer on the par-3 14th to tie for the lead, and a wedge that settled 4 feet below the hole that gave him the lead with three to play. "I said yesterday I wanted to beat these guys at their best and I think I saw Ian's best today," Hossler said. "It's a bummer, but I'm very proud of the way I played." Jordan Spieth closed with a 66 and tied for third with Emiliano Grillo (68), giving Spieth momentum for the Masters. It was Spieth's best finish against a full field since he tied for second in the Dell Technologies Championship outside Boston in September. "Goal accomplished for the week," Spieth said. "I've made some big strides from my last couple tournaments. I'm very excited for what next week holds." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 5:51 P.M. E.D.T.
 AUGUSTA, Ga. —  Sergio Garcia peeled back the blanket and leaned over for another peek at his 3-week-old daughter, sound asleep against her mother's chest. As his wife chatted with friends, he walked back over to take a purse that dangled from her arm, and then a shopping bag at her feet. He was much a doting father and husband as he was the Masters champion, and that was only fitting Sunday. The mood is light the day before Masters week officially begins. It feels more like a day of family and celebration, enhanced by the 60 children moving out from the driving range to the chipping area to the 18th green for the Drive, Chip and Putt competition that has become a tradition since it began five years ago. Garcia was a big part of that, too. He became the first defending champion to attend the reception Saturday night. One girl was asked for her best Garcia impersonation from his victory last year, and she crouched, clenched her fists and pumped both arms. According to those in attendance, Garcia came on stage and showed the real thing. Advertisement Garcia later went out for a practice round with his father, Victor, but not before a big Spanish celebration. Advertisement The large group next to the outdoor dining area between the clubhouse and the putting green included Garcia's parents, his wife's parents, two-time Masters champion Jose Maria Olazabal and Jon Rahm, who hopes to become the fourth Spaniard in a green jacket. After speaking in English and Spanish to European Tour television, Rahm said he had to leave. "I'm going wherever he goes," he said, nodding to where Garcia was standing, except that he was referring to Olazabal. Rahm recalled going to a Spanish event five years ago ahead of the World Amateur Team Championship to ask Olazabal what parts of his game needed work. Olazabal told him to concentrate on his chipping and putting. "He said, 'Do this, do that.' So I did this, I did that. And I won," Rahm said, smiling before he added, "So I need to listen to this man."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There were Masters champions all over Augusta National on Sunday, several of them presenting trophies to the various age groups of winners. Garcia, Adam Scott, Nick Faldo, Mark O'Meara, Gary Player, Ben Crenshaw and Bubba Watson were among those posing with the kids. Faldo and Watson share one peculiar thing in common at the Masters — multiple victories, no top 10s except for when they win. It goes against so much evidence that Masters champions have a knack for playing well. Bernhard Langer was in the mix two years ago when he was 58. Fred Couples seems to play well no matter how bad his back is treating him. Tiger Woods has never missed the cut at the Masters, and even in his last full season before multiple back surgeries, his tie for 17th was his best result of the year. "I have no idea how the formula works," Faldo said, though he wasn't the least bit bothered. "My top 10s were very good top 10s." Advertisement Watson won in 2012 and 2014, and in between he figured he could at least finish in the top 10. "I was right around 10th," Watson said. "And then I made a 10 on No. 12. I made a 20-footer for a 10." Woods was not expected until Monday, and in some respects, that's when this Masters might really come to life. Most of the best players in the world already have won this year — Dustin Johnson, Rahm, Justin Thomas, Rory McIlroy, Garcia — and that's been the case in recent years going into Augusta National. Woods hasn't won, but he's playing well, and that almost feels like a victory considering his four back surgeries. "Tiger coming back is better than just playing," Faldo said. "He's going to threaten. I think he's ahead of schedule." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 9:45 A.M. E.D.T.
 CARDIFF, Wales —  Deep in the bowels of Cardiff's Principality Stadium, Anthony Joshua sat with his four world heavyweight belts in front of him and called on Deontay Wilder to get serious about negotiations for a unification fight. Across the Atlantic, Wilder was posting a video on Twitter minutes later, shouting into his phone: "Joshua? Joshua? Stop playing, and pick up the phone!" Team Joshua wants it. Team Wilder wants it. The boxing world and beyond wants it. But will it happen? The path was cleared for a fight between the sport's two most destructive punchers when Joshua beat Joseph Parker in a unanimous decision in front of 78,000 spectators in Cardiff on Saturday. He added Parker's WBO belt to his own WBA, IBF and lightly regarded IBO straps. Joshua paraded them in the ring. He displayed them in front of the world's media. But he knows there's one missing if he's to become the first undisputed heavyweight champion since Lennox Lewis in 2000: Wilder's WBC belt. Advertisement "I will get all five of the belts," Joshua said. "It's not an issue." Yet, he knows time is not on his side. And so does his promoter, Eddie Hearn. Advertisement Being a multiple champion brings with it a range of mandatory fights. There's only a small window for Joshua to clean up the division before the belts start getting stripped off him. "I think it has to happen in 2018," Hearn said of the Wilder fight, "otherwise we are going to hit some major problems with the politics and the mandatories. It's just a case of if it happens next or if we fight (someone else) in the summer and then Wilder. "If they stepped up and were actually serious about the fight, and serious about a deal we are more than happy to offer them, it could happen next. But they are so erratic and unpredictable, I don't know what to believe." It's not the first time Hearn has spoken of the difficulties in dealing with Wilder's people, and it likely won't be the last. He has already visited New York for negotiations but it gets complicated with Wilder's affairs being handled by co-managers Shelly Finkel and Al Haymon, and Haymon's business partner Luis DeCubas Jr. Also problematic for Hearn and Joshua is Wilder's apparent desire for a 50-50 split of any fight. Joshua believes, as a holder of four belts, that he deserves a bigger share of the pie. "I'm going to be one of the most powerful men sitting on the side of the negotiating table," Joshua said, eyeing up his belts. "Why do I have to do all this work to have to give someone a bonus. Can I get a bonus now, do you know what I mean? Can I get a little pat on the back now? That's how I see it. It's a bit of a catch-22."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And that's his problem. Joshua is in a rush to unify, but Wilder might not be. Much to their chagrin, Team Joshua might have to relent if their man is to reach his goal. Such is the demand for the fight that it will likely take place, perhaps a two-fight deal with one in America — where Joshua is yet to fight — and the other in Britain. Advertisement Wilder has won all 40 of his pro fights (with 39 knockouts), while Joshua made it 21-0 with a no-frills win over Parker in which he showed another side to his boxing repertoire. Instead of his trademark big punches, Joshua used the jab behind his long reach to great effect. Parker was never allowed to get in close, either by Joshua or fussy referee Giuseppe Quartarone. It was a professional, mature display by Joshua against a previously unbeaten opponent, and it impressed his trainer Rob McCracken. "You've seen some of the heavyweights in the past win the fights behind the jab," McCracken said, "and that's what he did." Joshua sees himself as more than just a big puncher, regularly referring his "finesse" and "boxing prowess." He has spoken recently of the respect Floyd Mayweather earned for carving out an unbeaten career on the back of his technical skills, even if many of his fights weren't spectacular. The problem is, fans flock in their tens of thousands to see Joshua pulverize his opponents. Just like Wilder does, admittedly in front of smaller crowds. It's why the potential Joshua-Wilder match-up is so anticipated. Negotiations over the next few weeks will determine if that happens this summer. ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 6:42 P.M. E.D.T.
 MIAMI —  There are only 158 games to go, and the Miami Marlins know that absolutely nothing is expected of them this season. The doubters might be helping. Dillon Peters threw six sharp innings, Brian Anderson hit a three-run double to highlight a five-run fifth and the Marlins beat the Chicago Cubs 6-0 on Sunday to split their opening four-game series against a team that could very easily be a championship contender. "We did a nice job this series," Marlins manager Don Mattingly said. "It's early, we're excited, and that's going to have to continue. But that's what we want to build." Chad Wallach — who started the season 0 for 11 — had two hits for the Marlins, who were hitless in their first four innings before getting the offense going. Peters (1-0) helped out a well-worked bullpen in a big way, allowing six hits, striking out two and walking only one as the Marlins shut out the Cubs for only the second time in the teams' last 72 meetings. Advertisement "We're here to win, every game," Wallach said. "You hear all the jibber-jabber going on that everybody's saying, but we're here to win every game, compete and play within the team. So we don't let that get to us." Advertisement The crowd was 10,428, the smallest in Marlins Park history by 209 patrons. The Marlins now announce attendance based only on tickets sold, a change from the previous ownership regime. Wallach's RBI single — the first run driven in of his career — got the Marlins on the board in the fifth, and they were off and running. Derek Dietrich's single under the glove of Cubs first baseman Anthony Rizzo drove home Wallach to make it 2-0, and Anderson's two-out line drive to right off Cubs starter Jose Quintana (0-1) cleared the bases. Quintana gave up six hits and six runs in six innings. The last of the runs charged to him scored when he uncorked a wild pitch in the sixth. "The game changed in just one inning," Quintana said. "It's a little frustrating." Kyle Schwarber had a pair of hits for the Cubs, who stranded 10 runners on Sunday and 42 runners for the series — a lot even when considering one of the four games in Miami was a 17-inning affair on Friday night.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Quite frankly, we could not have hit the ball better than we did," Cubs manager Joe Maddon said. "That's the most incredible shutout that I've ever seen in my life." Brian Duensing worked the final two innings in relief of Quintana, capping a series in which Cubs relievers worked 24 innings and allowed only two runs. TRAINER'S ROOM Marlins 1B Garrett Cooper, who got hit on the hand in Friday's game and had Saturday off to deal with the bruise, was pulled after two at-bats. Mattingly said the team probably brought Cooper back a day early, but stressed there's nothing structurally wrong. CHASING JETER Marlins 2B Starlin Castro had another hit, the 1,285th of his career. If he gets 10 more before May 7, he'll pass Marlins CEO Derek Jeter for the fifth most in MLB history by a player before his 28th birthday. Advertisement REDEEMED Cubs RF Jason Heyward dove into first to beat out an infield grounder in the fourth, getting there when Cooper chose to keep the ball himself and not flip it to Peters covering the bag. That gave the Cubs runners on first and third with one out, but Cooper more than atoned on the next pitch — charging hard to field a bunt by Javier Baez and throwing home to start a 3-2-5 retiring of Schwarber and keeping the game scoreless. JM2K Sunday was the 2,000th game in Maddon's managerial career — although it's only the 1,999th that counted. The Cubs and Pittsburgh played to a 1-1 tie in 2016, a late-September game stopped by rain because it was would have no impact on the standings. Of the previous 33 managers with 2,000 games and at least one World Series title, 21 already have been enshrined in the Hall of Fame. UP NEXT Cubs: RHP Tyler Chatwood gets the start in Cincinnati on Monday against Reds RHP Tyler Mahle. Marlins: RHP Trevor Richards will be called up to make his big-league debut Monday against the Boston Red Sox, who'll start LHP Brian Johnson. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 9:57 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Sister Jean Dolores-Schmidt was waiting at the hallway door when Loyola-Chicago's frustrated, teary-eyed players left the Final Four court. The 98-year-old nun leaned up from her wheelchair to greet each Rambler with a hug and a few consoling words — a dozen gentle versions of solace, according to the players who love her. "She said she was proud of us," big man Cameron Krutwig said in a wavering voice. "'Way to leave your heart out there for Loyola. Way to make a name for yourself.'" Loyola-Chicago's improbable run through the NCAA Tournament ended Saturday night with a 69-57 loss to mighty Michigan . Everybody's favorite underdog team and their No. 1 fan had a 10-point lead in the second half, but couldn't overcome a slew of late turnovers and missed shots. Advertisement The magic that made the Ramblers into national darlings was hard to remember at the Alamodome. Sister Jean still told her players they'll never be forgotten. Advertisement "Sister Jean just said it was a great season," Aundre Jackson said. "She was so happy to be on this run with us, and we should keep our heads high and be happy with what we accomplished." The Ramblers readily acknowledge Sister Jean has become a bigger celebrity than any player on her beloved team, and she was greeted by cheers, waves and dozens of outstretched phones when she rolled out to her seat before the semifinal. She watched the game from a platform just off the court opposite Loyola's bench, sitting with a few fellow Ramblers fans. Several security people stood around the small section of seats, keeping fans and gawkers at a respectful distance. Fans throughout the arena wore T-shirts reading "Win One for the Nun!" and a sign in the crowd encouraged Michigan to give obedience to "Jean's Plan." "She's become a huge celebrity, and she's a great part of this team," Krutwig said. "A lot of people know our name now in college hoops, and her impact has been as great as ours."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sister Jean's pregame message in the locker room was the same as always, the players said: Play hard, play together and play smart, and hopefully you'll come out on top. If it doesn't happen, she tells them regularly, it wasn't meant to be. "It was great to see her there after the game," guard Clayton Custer said. "She's been with us all the way. She's an incredible person." After a thoroughly charming news conference Friday, Sister Jean couldn't wait to watch the most unlikely run by her Ramblers since 1963, when they won the national title. Sister Jean watched that big game on tape delay back home on an 11-inch, black-and-white television. For this improbable trip to the Final Four, there was no question she would be right on the scene. Advertisement Sister Jean watched attentively in the second half while Loyola's healthy lead dwindled and vanished in a flurry of turnovers. During a timeout with 1:39 to play and the Ramblers down 10, Sister Jean's helpers wheeled her away from her seat and took her backstage to the locker room door, eager to avoid the crush of traffic after the final whistle and before the second game between Kansas and Villanova. After greeting her players, Sister Jean was wheeled down a long Alamodome corridor and into a waiting white van. The Ramblers' incredible season may be over without a national title, but Sister Jean helped to guarantee they'll be remembered. "You never want to go out like that, but we're proud," Krutwig said. "It hurts right now, and even though it might hurt for everyone for a while, once we get over it and realize what we did, I think the memories are going to outweigh the pain for sure." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 11:33 P.M. E.D.T.
 ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. —  Xander Bogaerts is off to a blistering start for the Boston Red Sox. The hot-hitting shortstop homered in his second three-hit game of the season, keying a 3-2 victory over the Tampa Bay Rays on Saturday night. "I'm just trying to be consistent, do the same thing every day to get better, and whatever happens out there happens," said Bogaerts, who also doubled in a run while extending the AL's longest active hitting streak to 12 games. Bogaerts went deep in the second inning against Andrew Kittredge (0-1), a reliever making his first big league start in the debut of Tampa Bay's plan to use bullpen days in place of a customary fifth starter. Bogaerts, who also had three hits on opening day, is 8 for 12 with five doubles in three games. "He's on fire," Kittredge said. Advertisement Rick Porcello (1-0) shut down the Rays on four hits through five innings, but was unable to get through the sixth. Advertisement Carlos Gomez doubled leading off the inning, and Matt Duffy's one-out infield hit chased the right-hander. Joey Wendle's sacrifice fly off Heath Hembree made it 3-1. Gomez homered in the eighth, and Tampa Bay put the potential tying run on base in the ninth before Craig Kimbrel got C.J. Cron to line into a double play and retired Denard Span on a popup for his second save. The Rays planned to open the season with a four-man rotation and use bullpen days as needed in place of a fifth starter. The non-traditional approach took a hit on the final day of spring training when the club announced Nathan Eovaldi had loose bodies in the right elbow and needed arthroscopic surgery. With just three healthy starters — Chris Archer, Blake Snell and Jake Faria — on the roster, manager Kevin Cash will need another bullpen day Monday, when Tampa Bay begins a two-game series against the Yankees in New York. Kittredge allowed two runs and three hits in 3 1/3 innings. Rookie Ryan Yarbrough worked the next four innings in his major league debut, followed by Sergio Romo and Chaz Roe.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cash liked what he saw, especially from Kittredge and Yarbrough. Still, the manager said it's too early to evaluate the effectiveness of the bullpen-day concept. "We really don't rate anything after one go-around," Cash said. "But I thought the two guys, the combination, threw the ball well." Advertisement FOR OLD TIMES' SAKE Wilson Alvarez threw a ceremonial first pitch on the 20th anniversary of Tampa Bay's first game. The left-hander, one of about 20 members of the inaugural team who returned to Tropicana Field for a pregame ceremony, was the starting pitcher in an 11-6 loss to the Detroit Tigers on March 31, 1998. Hall of Famer Wade Boggs, also on hand Saturday, hit the franchise's first home run that day. Red Sox ace Chris Sale, who grew up in nearby Lakeland, Florida, remembers that night very well. He was in the stands one day after his ninth birthday to watch his first big league game in person. ENCORE Red Sox manager Alex Cora said left-hander David Price will start Boston's home opener Thursday against Tampa Bay, which faces the defending AL East champions seven times in the Rays' first nine games. Price limited the Rays to four hits over seven innings in Boston's 1-0 win Friday night. TRAINER'S ROOM Red Sox: LHP Eduardo Rodriguez (right knee surgery) is scheduled to go six innings in his next minor league start Tuesday at Boston's spring training complex in Fort Myers, Florida. ... LHP Drew Pomeranz (left forearm) is expected to pitch in a minor league game Wednesday in Fort Myers. Rays: Eovaldi, who had surgery Friday to remove loose bodies in his right elbow, could resume pitching activities in eight to 10 weeks. He missed all of 2017 after Tommy John surgery. UP NEXT Red Sox: RHP Hector Velazquez starts the finale of the four-game series. Rays: Faria, coming off six no-hit innings in his final spring training appearance, makes his season debut. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By The Associated Press SAN ANTONIO — Oklahoma's Trae Young captivated the college basketball world, dashing and dishing and filling up the hoop. Arizona's Deandre Ayton was called a cyborg and a unicorn, whatever people could think of to describe his unique combination of power and athleticism. Marvin Bagley III seemed to be playing a different game than everyone else, dunking, slashing, shooting and dominating at Duke. All three are headed to the NBA, Ayton and Bagley potentially as the draft's top two picks. None made it to college basketball's final weekend. The trio — and the rest of the coveted one-and-dones — were already done before the bracket branched into San Antonio. Winning championships, except in rare cases, takes more than one talented player. It requires a collective effort, experience, leadership — elements Villanova and Michigan have stockpiled while building toward the NCAA Tournament title game on Monday night. "There's a process of going through the season that you have to experience one, two, three times before you can really have this type of success under this pressure in March," Michigan coach John Beilein said. The Final Four this year has come down to just that. All four teams had talented freshman, though none of the one-and-done variety. Loyola-Chicago's Cameron Krutwig was the Final Four's leading true freshman scorer at 10.3 points per game. The last two teams have counted on freshman to help them reach the title game. Wildcats big man Omari Spellman is a freshman, but had a redshirt year to learn coach Jay Wright's system and transform his body. Collin Gillespie has appeared in 31 games, but averages only 4.3 minutes. The Wolverines have two key players who are freshmen in Jordan Poole and Isaiah Livers. Poole hit the buzzer-beater against Houston to send Michigan into the Sweet 16 and was the vocal leader in the locker room when the Wolverines trailed Loyola-Chicago at halftime in the national semifinals. Livers has started 21 games this season, rotating with Duncan Robinson at forward. One-and-done they are not. These title contenders are here because they have veteran leaders, savvy players who know the game's nuances and can handle the brightest spotlights without peeking around the corner to a professional career. "We recruit guys that just want to be in college," Wright said. "We want them to enjoy the college experience and then we hope that after one year of enjoying the college experience they have a really difficult decision to make that the NBA wants you but you really enjoy college. Rather than come to college saying I want to get out as soon as I can." Villanova is led by Associated Press national player of the year Jalen Brunson, a heady, always-in-control junior who fills up the box score. The rest of the leadership trust includes juniors Mikal Bridges, Eric Booth and Eric Paschall, and scrappy sophomore Donte DiVincenzo. Michigan's main man is junior Moe Wagner, a multi-dimensional German big man and matchup nightmare. Juniors Charles Matthews and Muhammad-Ali Abdur-Rahkman are the other main scoring options, sophomore Zavier Simpson runs the point, graduate seniors Duncan Robinson and Jaaron Simmons provide depth at guard. Wagner, Brunson and Bridges will likely have NBA careers. Some of the others, just maybe. "We always say and I think it was Rudy Tomjanovich who said this, 'We're not amassing talent when you're building a team; you're building a team,'" Beilein said. There have been seasons when freshmen were the catalysts to championship runs: Pervis Ellison and Louisville in 1986, Syracuse's Carmelo Anthony in 2003, Anthony Davis and his fellow future NBA friends at Kentucky in 2012. The most recent freshman-fueled title came in 2015, when Jahlil Okafor, Justise Winslow and Tyus Jones led Duke to its fifth national title. Even when a freshman carries, others have to help with the load. Someone has to provide the veteran leadership, fill the gritty roles crucial to winning titles. "It's always valuable in these games," Wright said. "And I think the teams — the Duke teams, the Kentucky teams that have won with one-and-done players — they've had great experienced players on those teams, too. They might not have gotten the hype, but they were the players that kind of led those young guys through that experience." Villanova and Michigan both have that — without the one-and-done guys. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 1:03 P.M. E.D.T.
 From its perch in the Pacific, Hawaiian Airlines has recovered from bankruptcy filings in the 1990s and 2000s to carve out a profitable niche flying vacationers from the West Coast and Asia to the 50th state. Peter Ingram, who joined Hawaiian in 2005, was elevated from chief commercial officer to CEO in March, succeeding longtime leader Mark Dunkerley. Ingram spoke recently to The Associated Press about increasing competition, plans to expand Asia service, and the difficulty of marketing the airline to investors when its headquarters are closer to Tokyo than New York. Ingram says airlines are in better financial shape today but they're still vulnerable to economic ups and downs. The answers have been edited for length and clarity. Q. How are you settling in? So far, so good. I've been with Hawaiian for over 12 years, so in some respects it is sliding over into a new chair as opposed to being parachuted into a completely new situation, and that's helpful. Advertisement Q. What are the top items on your to-do list? One of the most important things that we're doing this year is bringing the A321neo into our fleet. We have endured some delivery delays in terms of getting those airplanes in, so some of (my) time has been occupied with trying to manage the uncertainties around aircraft deliveries. One of the other big strategic opportunities that we have is our partnership with Japan Airlines, which is reaching an important milestone this weekend with the first code-share flights (each airline can sell seats on some of the other's flights and share the revenue). We have spent much of the past nine months or so negotiating the terms of a joint-venture agreement. Advertisement Q. American Airlines CEO Doug Parker says the industry is so strong that he doesn't expect to ever lose money again. Would you make that promise about Hawaiian? Doug has had to answer for that quote so many times that I'm probably not going to bite and set myself up for two years of questions about it. I think there are a number of things that are fundamentally different about the industry today that position us better for the future. Airlines are much stronger financially, we have generally stronger balance sheets, strong cash flow, and that is allowing people to make long-term decisions that are sensible. We are still susceptible to economic swings and we are still exposed to currency and commodity volatility, but I do agree with the notion that from a financial-performance perspective, the highs should be higher and the lows should be less low as we go through an economic cycle.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Q. Southwest Airlines is about to start flying to Hawaii. Does that scare you? It doesn't. We think Southwest is a great airline and we are envious of a 40-plus-year track record of profitability, but it's really not something new for us to have competitors coming into the market. A few years ago we had Allegiant start service to Hawaii and I remember a lot of the investment analysts that cover our stock were sort of prophesizing the immediate doom of Hawaiian Airlines. We've had Alaska coming into the market ... ATA was in the market as a low-cost carrier about a decade ago. There is a long list of competitors we have dealt with. Q. Does your focus on leisure travel make you more vulnerable if the U.S. economy slumps? If you look back to the time around the global financial crisis, leisure travel actually held up better than business travel. I don't think that is a fluke or an accident. People value their time off. Our guests don't necessarily live to work, they work to live. When companies are trying to control costs, an order can come out tomorrow that says 'We're cutting the travel budget 25 percent.' That is a very different dynamic than people making individual decisions about their leisure travel. Q. Some U.S. airlines have had notable customer-service failures. Is air travel getting that much worse? It's hard for me to tell how much of it is that traveling has become more difficult or that reporting has become better as everyone has become a photojournalist. Our airplanes are very full and that can create stress and tension sometimes and the overall travel experience — not so much on the airplane, but leading up to travel — can be stressful. (We should make) the transactions, whether it's checking in or checking a bag or getting through security, more seamless. Q. You are in Honolulu, far from New York. Is it hard to get the attention of mainland investors? It's absolutely still the case that we are less well-known and less understood by investors. People east of the Mississippi don't have a lot of opportunities to see Hawaiian Airlines flights. We are much better known on the West Coast. Our market capitalization, while still very small relative to other U.S. airlines and certainly the big four U.S. airlines, is much larger than it was, so that makes us more accessible to some investors than we used to be, but it is something we have to constantly work at. ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 5:56 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - John Isner delved deep into his energy tank to outlast Germany's Alexander Zverev 6-7(4) 6-4 6-4 and claim the biggest title of his career at the Miami Open on Sunday. The 32-year-old American was tiring noticeably in the second set but broke Zverev in the ninth game to go up 5-4. The moment inspired Isner, who changed to a yellow shirt and won that set and the next for his first victory over world number five Zverev. "I couldn't have scripted this," said the 14th seed in a courtside interview after winning every service game. Advertisement "(When) I came into this tournament, I had won one ATP match all year and was playing very poorly," said the big-serving Isner. Advertisement "I won my first match (here) in three sets and that's how tennis goes - you start to gain a little confidence and the next thing you know things start to roll your way." The win will enable Isner to become the highest ranked American at number nine when the new world rankings are released on Monday. He also is the first American man to win in Miami since Andy Roddick in 2010. Isner, who had failed to win a match at five of his previous six main tour events in 2018, had never won an ATP Masters 1000 final before Sunday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Zverev, 12 years Isner's junior, saved three break points in the second game of the match and went on to take the tiebreker when he won four points in a row. The second set went to 4-4 before Isner broke Zverev. Now reenergised, the American saved two break points in the next game to take the set. Despite failing to convert four break points at 2-2 in a tense third set, Isner broke Zverev at 5-4, the unhappy German breaking his racket in disgust. "I think I missed more shots today than I did the whole tournament," Zverev said. "I played bad from the baseline. But, it's not easy against John, because you always feel the pressure that if you get broken you're not going to win the set." Isner then closed out the match with an emphatic ace, his 18th of the day. The match, which lasted two hours and 30 minutes, was the last for the Miami Open at Crandon Park. After 32 years it will move to a new facility next year at the NFL Miami Dolphins stadium. It also capped a successful weekend for American tennis with U.S. Open champion Sloane Stephens claiming the women's title on Saturday. Advertisement (Reporting by Gene Cherry in Salvo, North Carolina, editing by Pritha Sarkar) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 11:27 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEWARK, N.J. —  New Jersey Devils' first playoff berth since 2012 is there for the taking. All they have to do is take it. Taylor Hall scored two goals and the Devils reduced their magic number for clinching a postseason berth to six points with a 4-3 victory over the New York Islanders on Saturday night. Any combination of points earned by the Devils or not earned by Florida that total six will complete an improbable ride back to the postseason for the team that finished last in the Eastern Conference in 2016-17. "It's a tough time in the year and for a lot of the guys in this room, they're going through it for the first time," said Hall, who is looking to make the playoffs for the first time in his eight-year NHL career. "It wasn't a perfect game but we managed to get two points and give ourselves some breathing room." Advertisement Coupled with Florida's 5-1 loss to Boston earlier in the day, the Devils opened a five-point lead over the Panthers in the race for the second wild-card spot in the conference and moved within a point of idle Philadelphia for the top wild-card spot. The Devils and Flyers each have four games left in the regular season, while the Panthers have five. Advertisement "Any win right now is going to be huge and we have to keep it going to give ourselves the best chance to control our own destiny and come out strong in Montreal tomorrow," said goaltender Keith Kinkaid, who made 27 saves, the last on a one-timer by Islanders defenseman Ryan Pulock with 14 seconds to play. Stefan Noesen and Blake Coleman each had a goal and assist as the Devils won for the seventh time in 10 games (7-2-1). Tanner Fritz, Anthony Beauvillier and Chris Wagner scored for the Islanders, who have lost 16 of their last 19 (3-12-4). Thomas Greiss made 31 saves in his first game since Feb. 16, when he sustained an ankle injury and went on injured reserve. "He played great," Pulock said. "It was good to see him back. It looks like he didn't miss a beat, so good to see him." Hall, who has carried the Devils in a career-best season, broke a 1-all tied 41 seconds into the second period with a fortuitous power-play goal. His shot from the left boards hit off the skate of New York defenseman Adam Pelech in front of the net and deflected past Greiss.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Hall's 36th goal of the season was magnificent. He picked up a loose puck at his own blue line, flew up the ice into the Islanders zone and then veered to his left and ripped a shot over Greiss' left shoulder from the left circle to make it 3-1 at 9:08. "He's our leader," Coleman said of Hall. "He's been doing it all year, it's almost routine now for him to score big goals and make big plays. We feed off of it and it's a reason why we are where we are." Beauvillier got New York within one a little more than four minutes later with a power-play shot that was deflected by Devils forward Brian Gibbons past Kinkaid. Advertisement Islanders had a chance to tie it late in the period with another power play, but Coleman got his third short-handed goal, beating Greiss up high to cap a 2-on-1 with defenseman Mirco Mueller with 1:02 left in the period. The goal became important when Wagner scored on a deflection in front with 3:36 left in regulation. Fritz had given the Islanders the lead 75 seconds after the opening faceoff, scoring on a rebound. Neosen tied it at 7:54 scoring in close on a setup by Coleman. NOTES: The Devils honored hockey historian and television analyst Stan Fischler during the game. A 2007 Lester Patrick Trophy recipient for contributions to hockey in the United States, he is retiring from television coverage in the New York-metropolitan area after this season. He turned 86-years-old on Saturday. ... Devils RW Kyle Palmieri left the ice in the third period after being cut under the eye by an inadvertent stick from teammate Andy Greene. Devils coach John Hynes had no update on his condition. ... Wagner took out Hall and referee Dan O'Halloran with a check being the Devils net in the first period.  ... Hall's 88 points are the fifth most in a season for the Devils, eight less than Patrik Elias' record of 96 set in 2000-01. UP NEXT Islanders: Start the final week of the season at home against Philadelphia on Tuesday night Devils: Play final back-to-back of season at Montreal on Sunday night. __ More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 9:59 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Anthony Joshua, ever more the golden boy of British boxing, says he has no interest in trying to conquer America after adding a fourth world heavyweight championship belt to his collection on Saturday. Instead, he wants America -- in the shape of WBC champion Deontay Wilder -- to come and fight him in his own backyard for the undisputed crown. The WBC title is the only one remaining on Joshua's radar after he took the WBO championship from New Zealand's previously unbeaten Joseph Parker with a unanimous points decision at Cardiff's Principality Stadium. Joshua, who already had the WBA, IBF and IBO titles, told the 78,000-strong crowd to expect more such big nights in future. Advertisement "All these years, the UK fighters had to go to America and everyone had to spend a heap of money to go to Vegas," he said from the ring. Advertisement "We can do it in London, around Wembley, or Cardiff. It's local. We're staying right here. "Wilder - Let's go baby, let's go." Joshua won his first three belts by stopping Ukrainian Wladimir Klitschko at London's Wembley Stadium in April last year, with 90,000 fans celebrating one of the great nights for British boxing. He has now twice defended titles in Cardiff before similarly huge crowds. Asked what he would have to do to beat Wilder, Joshua replied: "Get him in the ring and I'll knock him spark out."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Briton's promoter Eddie Hearn questioned whether Wilder was up to the challenge, however. "Deontay Wilder was supposed to be here tonight, but he pulled out," he told Sky Sports television. "Deontay Wilder's people don't contact us, they don't want to know. He talks the talk, he can't walk the walk." "We'll do it anywhere," he added. "Have you seen where he boxes? He boxes in some great venues with no one there. Look at what we're doing over here. Look at what Anthony Joshua's doing. "Deontay Wilder will be watching right now. And this is called a show, this is called a crowd. He will not beat AJ and these people." Wilder, unbeaten in 40 fights, begged to differ and put out a video on social media after the fight suggesting he wanted to make it happen. "Of course I want Joshua to fight, he knows it no matter what they say and no matter what his promoter says ... I want the fight, let's make the fight happen, stop making these excuses," he said. (Editing by Peter Rutherford) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 8:18 P.M. E.D.T.
 CINCINNATI —  Bryce Harper finally hit a homer — two, no less. Leadoff man Adam Eaton had another big game. And the starting pitching was exquisite for the third time in a row. It's early, but new manager Dave Martinez feels good about what's going on with Washington. Harper hit a pair of solo homers, Eaton capped his impressive opening series with a two-run drive, and the Nationals held on for a 6-5 victory Sunday and a three-game sweep of the Cincinnati Reds. The Nationals are 3-0 for the fourth time in their history. They last swept an opening series in 2014. "I know it's only three games, but I like what I see," Martinez said. Starting from the top. Eaton returned from a knee injury that wiped out most of his 2017 season and figured prominently in all three victories, going 8 for 13 with two doubles, two homers, five RBIs and six runs scored. Advertisement Eaton singled and scored in a 2-0 opening win, went 5 for 5 with a homer in a 13-7 victory, and opened Sunday's game with a single. Anthony Rendon followed with his first homer off Sal Romano (0-1) . Eaton also had a two-run shot in the seventh inning. Advertisement "Eaton helped us out a lot last year and then he got hurt," Harper said, referring to his torn ACL in April. "It's good to have him back." Harper connected for the first time in the sixth and again in the ninth inning, giving the Nationals a franchise-record eight homers in an opening series. He's homered in the Nationals' opening series each of the last six seasons. Left-hander Gio Gonzalez (1-0) threw his best game last year against the Reds, going a season-high 8 1/3 innings for a 5-0 victory on July 14. He handled them again, allowing only five hits and one run while pitching into the seventh. The Nationals have gotten off to their perfect start with impeccable starting pitching. NL Cy Young winner Max Scherzer, Stephen Strasburg and Gonzalez allowed only two earned runs combined. The Nationals' bullpen struggled to hold it. Sammy Solis gave up Billy Hamilton's RBI double in the eighth and loaded the bases with no outs. Ryan Madson induced Adam Duvall's double-play grounder that undercut the rally. Sean Doolittle gave up Phil Gosselin's two-run homer in the ninth before fanning Hamilton to get his second save. The Reds never led in the series, which began with the opener pushed back a day because of rain. Cincinnati is 0-3 for the first time since 2003, its inaugural season at Great American Ball Park.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "They're doing exactly what we want to do: Get early leads and add on," manager Bryan Price said. "They scored in the first inning in all three games. It's frustrating to lose. We're hoping for some big changes around here." QUOTE OF THE DAY Eaton on why he was moving slowly after the game: "I don't know how I look, but how I feel — I feel pretty good. I've always kind of old-manned it. You should interview my wife. She's like, 'Yeah, he's always slumped over.' I walk really slow. And when I jog, I jog like I'm 85 years old. But it's just me conserving my body." Advertisement FINALLY! Eaton's leadoff single gave him a streak of six straight hits. He grounded out in his next two at-bats before hitting his homer. HOPPY TO BE HERE Reds second baseman Scooter Gennett donned a white rabbit outfit to entertain children as part of a Reds promotion before the game. Gennett said he also dressed as a rabbit one time with the Brewers. He ordered the bunny outfit online. "It was supposed to be pink," he said. "They sent me the wrong one." WELCOME BACK Reds catcher Devin Mesoraco made his first appearance since Aug. 14, when he suffered a broken left foot. Mesoraco has been limited to 95 games in the last three seasons because of hip, shoulder and foot injuries. He went 1 for 4 with a single. TRAINER'S ROOM Reds: Closer Raisel Iglesias returned from a three-day paternity leave and pitched the ninth, giving up Harper's second homer. The Reds optioned reliever Jackson Stephens to Triple-A Louisville to open a spot. Stephens gave up a pair of runs in one inning on Saturday. UP NEXT Nationals: Open a three-game series in Atlanta, with Tanner Roark facing left-hander Sean Newcomb. Roark is 6-3 career against the Braves with a 2.88 ERA in 13 starts and six relief appearances. Reds: Remain home for a two-game series against the Cubs, who have won 30 of the last 41 games between the NL Central rivals. Tyler Mahle makes his fifth career start and his first against Chicago, which starts Tyler Chatwood. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 4:48 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Facing a team that shoots as well as Villanova, limiting the takes from 3-point range is about as important as limiting the makes. It just so happens that Michigan is among the best teams in the country at defending 3-point offense. If the Wolverines can pull an upset on Monday night and beat the Wildcats in the NCAA Tournament championship game, the biggest reason is likely to be their ability to force Villanova inside the 3-point line. Villanova is coming off a record-setting performance in the Final Four victory against Kansas with 18 3-pointers, prompting fans to compare the Wildcats to the NBA's Golden State Warriors. Villanova is third in the country in 3-pointers made per game at 11.6. According to KenPom.com's advanced stats, Villanova is the most efficient offensive team in the country, and the Wildcats generate 40 percent of that offense from 3-pointers, which ranks 15th in the country. Advertisement "They can all shoot," Michigan center Moe Wagner said. "Usually when you play a good team, there's usually something you can give up and make a defensive game plan. But that's not the case here. You know what? It's not supposed to be easy." Advertisement Facing Michigan's defense has not been easy, either. After last season, coach John Beilein hired Luke Yaklich, a longtime high school coach in Illinois who was working as an assistant at Illinois State, to be Michigan's defensive coordinator. The results have been stellar. The Wolverines have the third-best defense in the country by KenPom's ratings and pargicularly focus on stopping the 3-point shot. Michigan is 10th-best in the country in percentage of points allowed via the 3, according to KenPom. During the 14-game winning streak the Wolverines will take into the championship game, Michigan's opponents are shooting 27 percent from 3-point range. Maybe even more important, Michigan has held its opponent under their season average for 3-point attempts 12 times during the 14 games. Loyola-Chicago attempted only 10 3s in the semifinals, eight below its average. Florida State and Texas A&M were both held five attempts below their season averages in losing to Michigan in the NCAA Tournament. Houston took four fewer 3-pointers than it usually does in the second round against the Wolverines.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "You can't stop everything unless you have eight or nine guys and size across the board and unique skill sets on defense," Yaklich said Sunday. "You just try to maximize the strengths of your individual parts on defense. The way we play is to make people take the tough contested 2s." When the opposing teams do get 3-pointers off, there needs to be a hand in the face — obviously. But it's easier said than done, especially against teams that move the ball the quickly and have shooters all over the floor. No team plays the spacing game better than Villanova. "It's just being able to contest without fouling," Yaklich said. "It's an imperfect game. You can't hope people miss. You have to make them miss. You make people miss because you contest. Our contest rate is the backbone of how we play defense." Advertisement Yaklich said Loyola was a good tuneup for preparing for Villanova. During the regular season, Big Ten rival Purdue probably presented the most similar challenges as Villanova for Michigan. The Boilermakers beat Michigan twice in January, going 23 for 41 from 3-point range. The second loss, a 92-88 setback on the road, led to an especially tough film session with Yaklich and the players. "It taught us all that we have to be more cognizant of the things we can control and not to take shortcuts on the little details, like how you get through screens and those type of things," Yaklich said. The Wolverines apparently learned their lessons. Michigan played Purdue again in the Big Ten Tournament championship game and the Boilermakers went 4 for 17 from behind the arc. To earn the biggest prize of all, Michigan's defense will have to conquer the toughest challenge yet. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
On College Basketball  By                     
 JOE DRAPE
 
APRIL 1, 2018
 SAN ANTONIO — In 1999, I was courtside when Duke played Connecticut in the N.C.A.A. championship game. On the floor were four first-round N.B.A. draft picks and five others who would go on to have solid-to-spectacular professional careers. Guys like Elton Brand and Richard Hamilton and Shane Battier. When Villanova meets Michigan here on Monday, the pro pickings are going to be much slimmer. The Wildcats’ Mikal Bridges is a likely lottery pick next year, and his teammate Jalen Brunson is projected to go late in the first round. The Wolverines’ Moritz Wagner should go in the second round and might grow into a solid N.B.A. player. So what happened to college basketball? Yes, the upsets in the early rounds of the N.C.A.A. tournament were entertaining, and the evolution of Loyola-Chicago from lovable underdogs to genuine contenders captured the imagination of the nation. But wasn’t this just more evidence of a massive talent drain in the collegiate ranks? Have one-and-doners robbed the game of its majesty? Have slick coaches who have treated them like mercenaries, and the assistants coaches that have been linked to a vast federal investigation into recruiting improprieties, drained any honor out of the label student-athlete? Has the N.B.A., and its rosters stocked with international stars, appropriated America’s game as its own and transformed it into a global entertainment product? Advertisement Yes, yes and, well, yes. But after a month of watching heart-stopping finishes and returning to college locker rooms, I was reminded that all this hand-wringing and discussion is still over teenagers. And, no matter how many ways the adults find to spoil it, they cannot. There’s too much magic. Advertisement You saw it moments after Michigan ended Loyola’s fairy tale run on Saturday and the Wolverines’ Jordan Poole, an 18-year-old freshman, sought out Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt, the Ramblers’ 98-year-old chaplain and inspiration, for a word. What did he say to her? “I told her I was a big fan,” Poole said. “Everything that she brought to the table, and being able to have such a big impact on the team, being in a situation like this, I thought it was amazing. Kids don’t really get to live in opportunities like this, so having those guys being able to do it and her being behind their back, I thought that was pretty cool.” 
            All class from Jordan Poole with #SisterJean pic.twitter.com/H0OXMxHUIi  You felt it when Wagner was told after his 24-point, 15-rebound performance that he had joined Hakeem Olajuwon and Larry Bird as the only players to score at least 20 points and collect at least 15 rebounds in a national semifinal. “Wow,” Wagner said with a tickled smile. Wagner then explained how, as a boy in Berlin, he grew up watching the Final Four each year and how he had watched Michigan lose a close game to Louisville in the 2013 final. The Wolverines coach, John Beilein, had made an impression on him. A year later, after a tip from a coaching acquaintance, Beilein flew to Berlin to talk Wagner out of signing a European professional contract and to persuade him to play college ball instead. “So as a little kid, to see him in my living room,” he said, “for a couple of hours, just to meet my family and see where I’m from, it meant something. It’s crazy, but we’re in it together.” Villanova Coach Jay Wright has abandoned the pursuit of All-Americans who want to spend the obligatory year (or, more often, a matter of months) in college before seeking fortune in the N.B.A. He said that he prefers players who actually want to attend college — to become a better student, a better person, a better player — and are willing to stay for however long it takes. Advertisement “That’s what we call our culture,” he said. “We’re more interested in maintaining our culture than we are getting guys to the N.B.A. or winning national championships. We feel like that fits our university and it will serve every player the best in the end.” The culture has been mostly a winning one of late; the Wildcats are seeking their second national title in three years. And no player embodies it better than Brunson. He gives no quarter on the court; he came out of high school on the same McDonald’s All-American roster as one-and-dones like Ben Simmons and Brandon Ingram, and he has collected nearly every player of the year honor available to him. But he also was named the Big East’s men’s basketball scholar-athlete of the year this season, and he will graduate after only three years, a fact that makes Wright just as proud as his play does. “I knew the N.B.A. could wait,” Brunson said. “I needed to be a better player and person. I had enough confidence in myself knowing it’s nothing magical. It’s all in the work.” While Brunson worked, even more one-and-dones came and went in college basketball. Another group arrived last fall — Deandre Ayton at Arizona, Marvin Bagley III at Duke, Michael Porter Jr. at Missouri — and now they, too, are off preparing for the draft.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In fact, take a look at nearly any N.B.A. mock draft and you’ll find a majority of the projected top-10 picks are one-and-dones. It’s nothing new. Shortly after UConn beat Duke all those years ago, Brand, William Avery and Corey Maggette — all underclassmen — did what was then considered unthinkable: they left the Blue Devils early for the N.B.A. So what has happened to college basketball? Everything. And nothing. The kids are making adult decisions faster. Some adults are acting like kids, making selfish decisions without thinking through the consequences. Yet despite all of that, we follow the N.C.A.A. tournament. It’s easier when you remember that college basketball is about kids playing a game. It brings us as much joy as it does them. Follow Joe Drape on Twitter @joedrape A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Sport Has Lost Something, but Not Its Magic.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 12:03 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN JOSE, Costa Rica —  Costa Rica's governing party won a big presidential election victory Sunday as many voters rejected an evangelical pastor who had jumped into political prominence by campaigning against same-sex marriage. The head of the Supreme Electoral Council, Luis Antonio Sobrado, said that with 95 percent of ballots counted Sunday night, Carlos Alvarado of the ruling Citizen Action Party had 60.8 percent of the votes in the runoff election. His opponent, Fabricio Alvarado of the National Restoration party, had 39.2 percent. The two men are not related. Fabricio Alvarado rose from being a political unknown to the leading candidate in the election's first round in February after he came out strongly against a call by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights for Costa Rica to allow same-sex marriage. Carlos Alvarado, a novelist and former labor minister who finished second in February to get the final spot in the runoff, spoke in favor of letting gays wed. Advertisement The victor wrote in his Twitter account, "Let's celebrate our 200 years of Indpendence with a government worthy and up to date with the times." Advertisement "Today, the world is watching us and we sent a beautiful democratic message." Recent opinion polls had said the candidates were running head-to-head going into the runoff, but in the end Carlos Alvarado had an easy win. In a speech to supporters, Fabricio Alvarado conceded defeat but said he had managed to raise the banner of "principles and values."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We are not sad, because we made history, because our message touched the country's deepest nerves," he said. The two share similarities beyond their family name. Both have backgrounds in journalism and both have recorded music - Fabricio Alvarado as a gospel singer and Carlos Alvardo as a college-age rock 'n' roller. Both candidates also had economic advisers who take a conservative approach to economics, favoring the free market and calling for a reduction in the size of government. Voter Maria Rodriguez said she supported Carlos Alvarado because she rejected his rival's homophobic discourse and does not believe the evangelical candidate was qualified to be president. Rodrigo Lopez said Fabricio Alvarado was his choice because Costa Rica should maintain its traditional values and he is tired of the ruling party's corruption. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The family of Stephon Clark joined hundreds of people at a rally urging California's capital city not to let his memory or calls for police reform fade nearly two weeks after the 22-year-old unarmed black man was killed by Sacramento officers. Clark's fiancee, Salena Manni, stood on stage with his two young sons, grandmother and uncle for the gathering Saturday organized by Sacramento native and former NBA player Matt Barnes, who pledged to create a scholarship fund for the children of black men killed by police. "All he wanted to do was go see his sons again, and unfortunately he can't," Curtis Gordon, Clark's uncle, said as he recalled seeing his nephew hours before the shooting. "So remember that — while we mourn, while we shout, while we cry — because it ain't just our pain, it's their pain." Barnes amplified calls for charges against the two officers who are on administrative leave. "It's more than color — it comes down to right and wrong," he said. "You're trying to tell me I can kill someone and get a paid vacation?" Advertisement The peaceful demonstration that drew between 200 and 300 people to a downtown park came a day after a private autopsy released by the family showed Clark was shot from behind. Advertisement Clark was killed March 18 by two police officers responding to a call of someone breaking into car windows. They yelled that he had a gun before shooting, but it was only a cellphone. The police department says it has not received an official autopsy report from the county coroner's office. A female demonstrator was hit by a Sacramento County Sheriff's Department vehicle as a crowd began marching in the streets after another vigil Saturday night. In a statement early Sunday, the department said "the collision occurred while the patrol vehicle was traveling at slow speeds," adding that the woman suffered minor injuries. The statement also said the sheriff's vehicle, which was surrounded by protesters yelling and pounding on the car, "sustained scratches, dents, and a shattered rear window." Activists and faith leaders called for justice not just for Clark, but for all black men killed by police. Family members of Joseph Mann, who was killed by Sacramento police in 2016, also spoke. The chairman of a police oversight commission urged attendees to continue their activism by showing up to meetings and pushing for systemic change. Community leaders urged the city to set a national example. "This little small town can show this nation our great big heart," the Rev. Kevin Ross said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. About 150 people attended another vigil and protest Saturday night outside a sheriff's department office. It was the latest disruptive but mostly peaceful demonstration since Clark was killed. Protesters have twice blocked fans from entering games involving the NBA's Sacramento Kings at a downtown arena, but there were no signs of trouble amid a big police presence at a game Saturday night against the Golden State Warriors. The Friday release of the private autopsy commissioned by Clark's family has prompted fresh outrage. Pathologist Dr. Bennet Omalu, known for his study of a degenerative brain condition in football players, announced that Clark was hit by eight bullets — six in the back, one in the neck and one in the thigh — and took three to 10 minutes to die. Police waited about five minutes before rendering medical aid. Advertisement Omalu said the proposition that Clark was assailing the officers, meaning he was facing them, is "inconsistent with the prevailing forensic evidence." He said it was unclear if Clark would have survived had he gotten immediate medical attention. A day after the shooting, police distributed a news release that said the officers who shot Clark "saw the suspect facing them, advance forward with his arms extended, and holding an object in his hands." Police video of the shooting doesn't clearly capture all that happened after Clark ran into his grandmother's backyard. Clark initially moved toward the officers, who were peeking out from behind a corner of the house, but it's unclear if he was facing them or knew they were there when they opened fire after shouting "gun, gun, gun." After 20 shots, officers called to him, apparently believing he might still be alive and armed. They eventually approached and found no gun, just a cellphone. ___ Associated Press reporters Sophia Bollag and Don Thompson in Sacramento and John Antczak in Los Angeles contributed to this story. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By BILLY WITZMARCH 31, 2018
 TORONTO — As Kevin Pillar strolled away from third base, his sights were fixed on the mound. He did not see Dellin Betances, the Yankees’ towering pitcher with a searing fastball and knee-buckling curveball. What he saw instead was an invitation. And so, after he had stolen second base and then third with two outs, Pillar audaciously bounced further down the third-base line with a full count on the batter, Gift Ngoepe. When Betances brought his hands together to come set, Pillar bolted toward home. Betances stepped off the pitching rubber and fired to catcher Gary Sanchez, but the throw was errant and Pillar raced safely home. It was the final run in the Yankees’ 5-3 loss to the Blue Jays on Saturday night, and though it turned out to be only insurance after the former Yankee Yangervis Solarte’s solo homer had put Toronto ahead, the play resonated in both clubhouses afterward. For the Blue Jays, it was a welcome bolt of energy after a pair of resounding defeats, awakening Rogers Centre as if it were late in the 2015 and 2016 seasons, when the Blue Jays beat back the Yankees en route to the playoffs. Advertisement “To be honest, I liked it more than my home run,” Solarte said through an interpreter. For the Yankees, it was a discouraging day all around. They lost two more players to injury — outfielder Billy McKinney and reliever Adam Warren — and found Betances, a four-time All-Star who floundered late last season, once again besieged by questions of what has gone wrong. Advertisement Betances, who gave up a solo home run to Pillar on his first pitch of the season on Thursday, covered the seventh inning after Tyler Austin hit the second of his two mammoth home runs — both into the second deck — to tie the score at 3-3 in the top of the inning. But after he threw two curveballs that Solarte took for balls, Betances followed up with a 98-mile-per-hour fastball. The switch-hitting Solarte hit it into the second deck in center field, an estimated 455 feet from home plate. After Randal Grichuk struck out, Pillar poked a 0-2 pitch to right field. Betances recovered to strike out Aledmys Diaz, again on three pitches, bringing up Luke Maile. Pillar stole second and, after Maile worked a full-count walk, stole third on a 1-2 pitch to Ngoepe. Maile stole second on the next pitch, another ball.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then, with the count full, Pillar made his move. Teams in the American League East are keenly aware of the troubles Betances has had holding runners on base and fielding his position — and Pillar did not need a reminder. In the thick of a playoff race two years ago, Betances fell down trying to field Pillar’s bunt in a late-game meltdown. Is there an effort to make Betances uncomfortable? “You nailed it perfectly,” Pillar said. “Those are the conversations we have in our hitters’ meetings. We know the guys that don’t necessarily like to pick off at bases, guys that don’t initially want the ball in their hands.” With Betances’ dominating stuff and two strikes on the weak-hitting Ngoepe, Pillar thought it was the right time to take a chance. “I got a pretty big walking lead, and I started jumping up and down to see if I could get his attention,” Pillar said. “He didn’t lose his focus on the plate. I told myself, if he comes set right now, I’m going to gamble right here.” Advertisement Betances credited Pillar with a smart play. “I tried to step off quick and throw,” Betances said. “But I didn’t have a good grip. I just rushed the throw. I didn’t have much time.” Even with one of the best bullpens in baseball, Manager Aaron Boone said his trust in Betances had not wavered. “It’s part of being a big leaguer,” Boone said. “I don’t care how great a player you are, there’s going to be bumps in the road along the way. It’s how you handle those and how you continue to bounce back and we’ll continue to support him in that way.” INSIDE PITCH Left fielder Billy McKinney suffered a sprained acromioclavicular joint at the top of his left (throwing) shoulder when he crashed into the outfield wall trying to catch a fly ball. McKinney, who is expected to be sidelined at least several weeks, was placed on the disabled list and third baseman Miguel Andujar is being recalled from Scranton/Wilkes-Barre. McKinney is the fourth Yankees outfielder on the disabled list, joining Aaron Hicks, Jacoby Ellsbury and Clint Frazier. … Adam Warren will be evaluated Sunday after taking a one-hopper off his left ankle in the eighth inning. If he is unavailable for more than a few days, the Yankees may put him on the disabled list, Manager Aaron Boone said. … Aaron Judge started in center field for the first time in his major league career on Saturday. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page SP5 of the New York edition with the headline: Yankees Fight Injuries  And Thinning Outfield  In First Loss of Season.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MATT FLEGENHEIMER and JESS BIDGOODAPRIL 1, 2018
 BERRYVILLE, Va. — For more than a month now, the questions have ricocheted down this Main Street culled from a Norman Rockwell dreamscape — past the dueling barbershops and the outdoor broom sale and the mural with the horse — quietly at first, when the Florida massacre was still fresh, and then not so quietly. Why would this time be different? Why should it be? “Every time something happens, everybody’s hollering,” Garland Ashby, 77, the owner of an estimated 75 guns, said of the recent protests over gun control, rubbing at his cigarette stub from a park bench in this town of 4,200. “A couple of months it’s in the news, and then it’s gone.” More than a week has passed since some 800 student-led marches pulsed through the country and abroad — more than a week for momentum to build, or stall out, or morph into something beyond anyone’s control. And in this tossup congressional district, a short drive from the demonstration’s nexus in Washington, and in other House battlegrounds nationwide, a consensus has formed on at least this much: Both sides think they are being underestimated. Both insist their adversaries will tire eventually, punching themselves out. “It’ll go away,” Mr. Ashby predicted, grinding the cigarette into the mud. “Like all the other times.” Advertisement “They’re looking for us to get bored,” said Rosie Banks, 17, a high school junior about 40 miles east in Sterling, Va., whose bedroom includes the “Am I Next?” sign she hauled across the capital last month and a fish named Malcolm X. “We’re not going to get bored.” Advertisement This has certainly not happened yet. Both before and after the march, high school students have shown themselves eager to hatch longer-term plans, with some plotting together last week through their spring breaks. In this stretch of Northern Virginia, students are trying to organize a town hall with Representative Barbara Comstock, one of the most vulnerable Republicans in Congress, recognizing that her support from the National Rifle Association could be a drag in a district that preferred Hillary Clinton in 2016. New voter registration pushes, steered by teenagers, are well underway. Students are consulting with established (and adult-run) groups like Everytown for Gun Safety, founded and financed by Michael R. Bloomberg, and the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence — with plans to discuss how to host their own candidate events before November or start clubs at their schools. Even less politically active students in Virginia’s 10th Congressional District have learned Ms. Comstock’s name. “They know who she is,” said Paige Thimmesch, 16, Ms. Banks’s classmate in Sterling, Va., who is hoping to arrange the forum with the congresswoman. “They don’t know every single policy. They do know that she is pro-gun.” Looking to history, fledgling activists are researching Vietnam-era student protests for context and inspiration. They are using words like “intersectional.” They are quoting favored lyrics from “Hamilton”: “This is not a moment, it’s the movement.” That movement, though, will hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout among young Americans — translating sound and fury into the long, slow work of lasting change. In the 2014 midterm elections, less than 20 percent of voters between the ages of 18 and 29 turned out to cast ballots, compared to more than 40 percent of voters between 45 and 59, according to an analysis of survey data by the United States Elections Project, which is run by Michael P. McDonald, an associate professor of political science at the University of Florida. Recent polling suggests the gap could close, at least somewhat, this fall. A Quinnipiac University survey released in late February found that 54 percent of those 18 to 34 said they were more motivated than usual to vote, outpacing every other age group. Advertisement While youth-driven movements in recent years, like Black Lives Matter and Occupy Wall Street, have installed themselves as forces in Democratic politics and the national discourse, their effects at the ballot box have been uncertain. Gun owners, mindful that flurries of mass activism have often dissipated on their own after past shootings, are still taking no chances. Some efforts have been unsavory: Survivors of the Parkland, Fla., massacre in February have been the subject of internet conspiracy theories and bizarre fictions. More civic-minded supporters of gun rights are discussing counter-rallies this month to demonstrate their collective might. “All these calls for gun control are only making gun owners snap to attention,” said Philip Van Cleave, the leader of the Virginia Citizens Defense League, a gun rights group. “This is not a one-way movement by any means.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then there is the N.R.A., whose track record includes few political losses in recent memory — its power derived less from direct donations than a fine-tuned electioneering machine primed to mobilize voters with a letter-grade system for assessing candidates and tens of millions of dollars in campaign ads and voter-guide mailings. Shortly after the Parkland shooting, President Trump expressed support for gun restrictions opposed by the N.R.A., scolding fellow Republicans for kowtowing to the group. It did not take long, after an Oval Office meeting with N.R.A. officials, for the president to reverse himself. Yet even in corners of the country unaccustomed to dissent on gun issues, supporters of restrictions sense an opening. In Maine’s Second Congressional District, a region that includes both small cities and parcels of land so rural they are officially called “unorganized territory,” school walkouts and satellite March for Our Lives protests have specked the map, powered by students and Democratic activists. Though gun owners have betrayed little immediate concern — “If they hang around, we’ll still be here, and if they don’t, we’ll still be here,” said Todd Tolhurst, the president of Gun Owners of Maine — students seem comfortable with their odds in any war of attrition. “We’ll outlive them,” said Sean Monteith, 17, a junior at Lewiston High School, adding that he hoped his peers would be able to outvote them, too. His cellphone includes a list of action items and reminders: “connect with city council,” “draft legislation,” “do not go on assumptions.” Back in Washington, a handful of Republicans seem attuned to at least two of those directives, hedging their positions in recent weeks to accommodate the post-Parkland moment. Several vulnerable members signed on to a Democratic bill authorizing federal research into gun violence. Two of them, Brian Mast and Carlos Curbelo, both Republicans from Florida, have endorsed an assault weapons ban. Activists appear determined to make others pay a professional price for declining to engage. In Colorado’s Sixth District, where Representative Mike Coffman is widely considered one of the most endangered Republican incumbents, organizers with Never Again Colorado, a new group advocating gun control, are planning a forum to discuss guns “with or without” Mr. Coffman. The district includes Aurora, where a gunman killed 12 people in a movie theater in 2012. “We have a lot of momentum right now,” said Ian Gaskins, 17, a high school junior who is helping to plan the event. “I don’t want people to stop caring about this until the next mass shooting.” Advertisement For Democrats, the zeal for gun control has at once presented an uncommon opportunity and an occasion to revisit plans for midterm messaging. After Mr. Trump’s election, his opponents did not necessarily expect a gun reckoning to be central to their 2018 strategy. Last summer, as the party strained to communicate its own agenda in the Trumpian haze, Democrats chose Berryville as the backdrop to introduce a broad-strokes platform of economic populism. Their top leaders in Congress, Senator Chuck Schumer and Representative Nancy Pelosi, and progressive stars like Senator Elizabeth Warren schlepped 65 miles outside Washington to deliver their message in the same park where Mr. Ashby, the gun owner, flicked away his cigarette on a recent afternoon. Eight months later, it is gun violence, more than any fiscal issue, that has galvanized a new generation of prospective Democrats, some not yet old enough to vote. In Virginia, the party had already long targeted Ms. Comstock, casting her as a poor fit for a district that includes some rural pockets, like Berryville, but also left-leaning Washington suburbs and vast reserves of more moderate voters repelled by Mr. Trump. “Barbara Bump-Stock,” said Candy Baracat-Donovan, 34, from Leesburg, Va., whose morning routine now includes a round of phone calls to the offices of representatives like Ms. Comstock. A spokesman for Ms. Comstock, Jeff Marschner, said the congresswoman was “committed to a multipronged effort to prevent gun violence,” citing her support for additional mental health funding and narrow, N.R.A.-backed legislation improving reporting to the national background check database, among other measures. It is not clear if she will agree to a town hall with students. They seem to understand the calculation. “High school students are scary,” said Jay Falk, 18, a senior in Virginia who co-founded Students Demand Action DMV, a gun control group with over 100 members. “We are not cynical yet.” Matt Flegenheimer reported from Berryville, Va., and Jess Bidgood from Lewiston, Me. A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Gun Control and Fall Elections: Moment or Movement?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 5:45 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  It used to be considered a gimmick, an experiment and even worse — a shot employed only by risk-taking coaches with teams that were big on dreams, short on talent and unafraid of the low-percentage play. More than 30 years later, and with plenty of help from Billy Donovan, Steph Curry and Steve Nash, to name a few, the Villanova Wildcats have officially made shooting the 3 a bona fide way to win a championship. Villanova is making 3s at record-setting levels this season, and with a win over Michigan in Monday's title game, might lay waste to the last vestiges of the once-sacrosanct notion that nobody could win big by lofting up the long shot without maintaining an inside game. "When the line came out, I think a lot of coaches were opposed to it," Donovan said. "They thought it would really hurt the game." Advertisement Not by a long shot. In their win over Kansas on Saturday, the Wildcats tied the Final Four record for 3-pointers in a game — by halftime — then shattered it in the second half. Advertisement They took only four shots from inside the arc over the first 20 minutes. Their 18 3s against the Jayhawks gave them 454 for the season, breaking an 11-year-old college record and setting themselves up as potentially the most 3-point reliant champion since the line was first drawn in 1986-87. "Over the last two years, I've noticed a dramatic change," said Brian Katz, the Sacramento State coach who, like so many in his low-major world, tries to play like the big boys even though he doesn't draw Villanova-style talent. "When you go into a game, teams all say 'Take away the 3 and make them take tough 2s.' You don't worry a whole lot when guys are making tough 2s. But when they're making 3s, you're worried about that." Only one previous champion made more than 400 3s in a season: The 2001 Duke squad led by Shane Battier and Jay Williams. Since then, no champion has come within 100 of what Villanova has made this season. The only team close: Jay Wright's 2015-16 squad, which made 347, capped off by Kris Jenkins' game-winner at the buzzer in the title game. In some ways, the reliance on 3s is a pure math equation. Whether a team shoots 50 percent on 60 shots from 2, or 33 percent on 60 shots from 3, it results in 60 points either way. If that team shoots 40 percent from 3 — or 45 percent, as was the case Saturday night — it runs away most nights. With a lineup full of tall, athletic players who can create their shots and drain them, Villanova is recalculating the risk-reward equation of the 3. The Wildcats have won their five tournament games by an average of 17.8 points. "In my generation, Jay Wright has changed basketball," Texas Tech coach Chris Beard said last weekend before losing to Villanova in the Elite Eight. "He's the one that kind of invented small ball, where your '4' man can shoot 3s. They always have four guys on the floor that shoot." When the 3-pointer first appeared, it was more novelty than time-tested strategy. Rick Pitino was viewed as a revolutionary in 1986-87 when he placed his fate into the hands of Donovan — the undersized guard known as "Billy the Kid." Billy D shot Providence into the Final Four, taking what was then viewed as a staggering 237 shots from 3 that season. Donovan was one of 20 players across the country who tried at least 200 3s. This season, there were 174 such players and Villanova has three — Jalen Brunson, Mikal Bridges and Donte DiVincenzo.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It's all based on the analytics, the quality of shots you're getting," Donovan said. "If you can take a 3, you're probably better off taking that than a (low-percentage) 2." Advertisement Where most teams played inside-out in Donovan's playing days, today's offenses are designed to have a guard dribble into the middle, which instinctually draws the attention of defenders. Wright says some of the tenets of this offense come from the Golden State Warriors; Curry has led the league in 3s for five straight seasons. Wright also draws from Rockets coach Mike D'Antoni, who started this about a decade ago in Phoenix by sending Nash through the middle to create. When the guard goes inside and defenders sag, the ball gets kicked out, then moved around the arc until it gets to an open shooter. In the worst-case scenario for defenders, as Kansas coach Bill Self put it after Saturday's loss, "We got spread out on defense. The game plan went to crap. You get caught in between on defense, and it's the worst thing you can do." Meanwhile, defenses that have the discipline to guard the outside leave themselves vulnerable in the paint. Villanova is shooting 59 percent from 2 this year. "And when they do get a 2, it's a strip-naked 2, because the court's so spread," Katz said. On Monday night, Michigan gets one last chance to slow it down. "I think we have to watch a lot more film and make some decisions," Wolverines coach John Beilein said. Even if they're the right ones, they might not beat Villanova. And even if they do, they probably won't reverse this trend. "It used to be you used the 2 to set up the 3," Katz said. "Now I think the 3 sets up the 2. It's completely an outside-in game." ___ AP Sports Writer John Marshall in San Antonio and freelancer Les East in New Orleans contributed to this report. Advertisement ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
On Baseball  By                     
 TYLER KEPNER
 
APRIL 1, 2018
 When Gabe Kapler came of age as a baseball fan, in Southern California in the early 1980s, he named his dog Pete for his first sports hero, Pete Rose, who played far away in Philadelphia. Pete the dog was a dirty, grimy mutt, Kapler said, some sort of terrier mix — a hustler, like Rose. Back then Kapler loved to wear a red satin Phillies warm-up jacket, and a few years later he adopted another Philadelphia athlete, Charles Barkley of the 76ers, as a favorite. That was the extent of Kapler’s ties to Philadelphia before the Phillies named him their manager in October, at age 42. As a boy, he rooted mainly for the Toronto Blue Jays, because that was the name of his T-ball team. He played for six major league clubs — Detroit, Texas, Colorado, Boston, Milwaukee and Tampa Bay — but never the Phillies. He is nothing like the last few managers to lead the team to the World Series. Dallas Green, a former Phillies pitcher and farm director, had a booming voice and a domineering presence. Paul Owens, who was also the general manager, was nicknamed Pope for his resemblance to John Paul II. Jim Fregosi, a raspy-voiced former All-Star, was a baseball lifer who stayed at a Holiday Inn by Veterans Stadium. Charlie Manuel, a plain-spoken hitting savant from Virginia, remains the city’s kindly baseball uncle. So who, exactly, is Kapler? He is a 12-year major league outfielder who once took a hiatus to manage a Class A team. He has been a blogger and a bodybuilder, and he is fascinated by statistics in a way no other Phillies manager has been. He works by candlelight in spring training, he plays Ping-Pong with his players, and for all the interviews he will do this season, he may ask more questions than he answers. Advertisement “He’s very intellectual, but at the same time kind of an oddball, definitely,” said Josh Reddick, a Houston Astros outfielder who played for Kapler in 2007, on a Red Sox farm team in Greenville, S.C. Advertisement “He’s been like that for years. He’s one of those guys, if he’s going to do something, he’s going to do it to the fullest extent.” Reddick spoke in spring training, so he was not referring to Kapler’s bullpen moves in the Phillies’ season-opening series in Atlanta. In the first three games, two of them losses, Kapler went to the bullpen a staggering 18 times, including a call to an infielder. In the opener, Kapler pulled starter Aaron Nola from a shutout after just 68 pitches, and the relievers blew the game. On Saturday he summoned the left-hander Hoby Milner to face Freddie Freeman for the third day in a row, but there was one problem — Milner was not actually warming up. After the game, Kapler said he took responsibility for that mishap, using the word “miscommunication” repeatedly with reporters and emphasizing the “long view.” One curious series aside, Kapler has long appealed to some of the more astute minds in baseball, including Joe Maddon, who managed Kapler with the Rays and said he had envisioned him as his future bench coach if the opening ever arose. Maddon appreciated Kapler’s bond with teammates and willingness to challenge conventional thought. Maddon, who now guides the Chicago Cubs, is the original iconoclast among modern managers. His methods played well in the obscurity of Tampa Bay, with a young franchise that had never won before. But Kapler’s first job comes with a flagship National League team in a town that has never seen anyone quite like him. Does he know what awaits him? “He’s strong enough to absorb any blows he’s going to get in the beginning, because definitely, the cheesesteak guys aren’t going to dig on that early on,” Maddon said. “Maybe the sushi people will be O.K., but not the cheesesteaks. So he’s going to have to fight through that.” Maddon is from Hazleton, Pa., not far from Philadelphia. He laughed and continued: “I know these folks, I’ve been there. But they have a nice team, and as they continue to blossom and his stuff works, the cheesesteak guys will start eating sushi.” Advertisement The Phillies, who are in New York for a series against the Mets, lost 96 games last season, their sixth in a row without a winning record. But they were 37-36 from July 16 through the end of the year, and rookies like Rhys Hoskins, J. P. Crawford and Jorge Alfaro fueled hope of an imminent turnaround. Their progress led the general manager, Matt Klentak, to add the veterans Carlos Santana and Jake Arrieta as free agents. It also persuaded him to replace Manager Pete Mackanin, 66, despite having extended Mackanin’s contract in May. Mackanin — now a special assistant to the general manager — had been the right fit for the Phillies’ rebuild, Klentak said, but a new phase, it seems, is underway. “Once our young players arrived in the big leagues and demonstrated that they were here to stay, we knew that things were about to change,” Klentak said. “We were looking for somebody who could connect with young players and really help to finish off their development at the major league level and create a new type of Phillies culture.” Klentak worked for the Baltimore Orioles in 2010, when Buck Showalter became the manager and instantly changed the team’s outlook. Unlike Showalter, of course, Kapler has never managed in the majors before. But he could be the kind of transformative figure the Phillies need. The Phillies were a power at the start of this decade, in the midst of a five-year run as N.L. East champions that included two World Series appearances and the 2008 championship. They had little incentive to change their principles, and were among the last teams to adapt to the statistical revolution sweeping the game. Now the Phillies have a growing group of analysts in the front office and a manager so fluent in numbers that he speaks confidently about the virtues of FIP (fielding independent pitching) compared with earned run average in predicting pitchers’ performance. “I like xFIP even better,” Kapler said, “because ballpark factors play in.” Kapler spoke in an hourlong interview late in spring training in Clearwater, Fla., his office lit by candles, with Norah Jones music playing in the background. He keeps the door to his bathroom closed, he said, because nobody wants to stare at a toilet. “None of this lighting, this lamp, none of it was there,” Kapler said. “There was a big brown desk right here, and a big chair behind it. It almost felt like a principal’s office — or a jail cell.” Advertisement Kapler preferred standing at his desk in a corner, by the whiteboard, which was covered by a pull-down screen that bears an image of a Phillies championship ring; he did not like the plain white style he inherited. Above the couch, in a collage of inspirational quotations from Maya Angelou, Albert Camus, Malcolm X and others, Kapler made sure to include Simón Bolívar, the Venezuelan military leader who died nearly 200 years ago. “We needed a Latin American Spanish speaker when our players come and sit down,” Kapler said. “Maybe they don’t know who Robert Frost is, but they all know who this leader is. I wanted to continue that inclusion.” Kapler had a French press in the office; he grinds his own coffee beans. On a shelf was a bottle of wine and a box of chocolates, a gift from a coach’s wife. The chocolates had been there for weeks, and he had not eaten one. He is very disciplined, he said, and chooses when to indulge. “I just do it when I want to, and not out of desperation,” he said. “It’s more like: ‘I plan to indulge on Friday of next week with friends. We’re going to go out and get cheesecake and steak with au gratin potatoes.’” Kapler did not hit a home run in high school, but his body gave him a chance for a future in the game: He was tall and wiry strong, and scouts could project that he would grow into a ballplayer’s frame. Even so, Kapler was drafted late — the 57th round, in 1995 — and became a physical marvel. At 6 feet 2 inches and 190 chiseled pounds, he posed shirtless for the covers of fitness magazines as a rookie for the Detroit Tigers in 1999. This was the height of baseball’s steroid era, and while accusations dogged Kapler, he wrote an eloquent denial for Baseball Prospectus, detailing his precise workout regimen. It is part of Kapler’s extensive digital footprint as a writer for that website, Fox Sports and his own lifestyle blog, for which he once extolled the powers of coconut oil. More seriously, Kapler also explored his dismay at having misjudged the character of a former teammate, Chad Curtis, who is now in prison for sexually assaulting underage girls. In another column, Kapler expressed his disgust at the “degradation” of bullying and hazing in baseball. His slogan with the Phillies is “Be Bold,” and he said he would celebrate individuality, not stifle it.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Where do you want to come to work more: where you’re looking over your shoulder all the time, or where people are like, ‘Hey, great to see you, glad to be in the same space as you’?” Kapler said. “It just seems really reasonable to me to create an environment of positivity.” The veteran reliever Pat Neshek, who spent most of last season with the Phillies and returned as a free agent, said Kapler’s accessibility was a welcome change. He staged a talent show for the players in spring training and devised a social-media competition pairing veterans with rookies to see who could add the most followers. Advertisement “If you came in here last year, nobody really talked,” Neshek said. “The environment wasn’t really friendly for a lot of young guys to feel comfortable, or a lot of older guys to feel comfortable. Now, you feel like you can just go into his office and chat him up for like 20 minutes if you wanted to — whereas, last year, that wasn’t really an option.” With Greenville, Reddick said, Kapler made low-level prospects feel like big leaguers. He was strict only about nutrition, making sure Reddick got up early every morning for breakfast, teaching him how to nourish his body for a long season. That was also a focus of Kapler’s three years as director of player development for the Los Angeles Dodgers, whose general manager, Farhan Zaidi, said Kapler had empowered players. “I want to have as few rules as possible, because I want guys to be accountable for their own behavior and their own work habits,” Zaidi said, describing Kapler’s approach. “Not just accepting or staying the status quo, in any part of the operation, is one of his greatest strengths,” Zaidi added later. “I’m sure he’ll do that at the big league level and have a lot of success.” Among Kapler’s innovations this spring was frequent shuffling of outfielders within an inning, putting his best defender in the spot where each hitter was most likely to drive the ball. Kapler said it was not about innovation but about upending assumptions; he assumes the outfield plan makes sense, but he is not sure. “It’s about being open when people say, ‘Wait a second, did you think about this?’” Kapler said. “‘Did you think about how the person might feel who’s getting swapped out?’ There’s a science to it. There’s a test and retest.” If he had more time, Kapler said, he would love to take his iPad to a coffee shop and lose himself in research. He is fascinated, among other things, by the many factors involved in moving the runners with a 3-2 count. He said he learned something new every day. “What separates him in any decision-making context is that he asks a ton of questions,” Klentak said. “He polls people all the time.” Seated with Philadelphia baseball writers at a winter-meetings luncheon, Kapler asked each to text five friends and ask them to name the most popular athlete in Philadelphia sports history. (The winners: Chase Utley, Brian Dawkins and Allen Iverson.) Kapler wants to immerse himself in his new surroundings, and he said fans had been universally welcoming so far. Advertisement In truth, the locals may get an unfair reputation for hostility to newcomers. The fans adored Dick Vermeil, a California native who arrived to coach the Eagles at age 39, in 1976. Vermeil poured his soul into the franchise with an emotional vulnerability that resonated with the city, where his face still appeared on billboards many years after his final game. “So what do I know about Phillies fans?” Kapler said. “They’re passionate, they’re caring, they pay very close attention. They care most about how much effort we put in and how prepared we are. The promise I can make to the Philadelphia fans is: We will not be out-prepared, we will not be outworked, we will not be outfought. I think that will put them at ease, if nothing else, and I also think they’re sensible and rational.” Sensible? Rational? Philadelphia? Hear Kapler out. “The label Philly fans get is that they’re tough,” he said. “Well, they just want you to play well, play with passion, sacrifice your body and never take a play off. Is that tough, or is it … normal? I see it as normal.” The sports scene in the Philadelphia area is thriving now, for a change. The Eagles are Super Bowl champions, the Sixers and the Flyers hold playoff positions, and Villanova had a chance to win another N.C.A.A. basketball title on Monday night. The fans have had little reason to make a certain sound — but if they do, Kapler promises to understand. “If we get booed,” he said, “we probably deserve to get booed.” Follow Tyler Kepner on Twitter: @TylerKepner. A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2018, on Page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: Manager  Is Ready  To Be Bold,  And Booed.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 7:45 P.M. E.D.T.
 AUGUSTA, Georgia —  After earning a long-awaited maiden major title at last year's Masters, Sergio Garcia would be forgiven for allowing a few superstitions to creep in at Augusta National Golf Club next week. Yet the Spaniard, who needed 74 attempts finally to claim a major, said he would not be trying to replicate last year's off-course routines, nor staying in the same house or eating the same foods. "I'm not that superstitious to try to do everything like I did last year," said Garcia. "I think that at the end of the day, you control things in your head... "It's just a matter of going back there, being confident again, enjoying what I'm doing and try to do it the best way possible so I can give myself a great chance at defending my title." Advertisement For Garcia, slipping into a Green Jacket after last year's playoff victory over European Ryder Cup team mate Justin Rose fulfilled a lifelong dream of matching his Spanish idols Seve Ballesteros and Jose Maria Olazabal as a Masters champion. Advertisement The 38-year-old Spaniard is now focused on becoming only the third golfer to successfully defend their Masters title and first since Tiger Woods accomplished the feat in 2002. Garcia has enjoyed top-10 finishes in each of his last three PGA Tour starts -- two of which came at World Golf Championships events in Mexico and Austin. He is happy with where his game is even if he is not considered a favorite to win the Masters. "I'm excited to go back there and defend my title as well as I can be and as well as I can do," Garcia said about returning to Augusta National for the April 5-8 Masters.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "You know, if I'm looked at as a favorite or not, it doesn't really matter, because at the end of the day, it depends on myself and what I do and on what I believe. "So, you know, those things, I don't think really matter that much, anyway." Since winning the Masters, Garcia has got married, wore his Green Jacket to his wedding reception, was named the European Tour Player of the Year and named his baby girl Azalea, after Augusta National's 13th hole where he scrambled for a miracle par in the final round to spark his victory charge. Garcia, whose Green Jacket tour included stops at Wimbledon and the El Clasico match between soccer powerhouses Barcelona and Real Madrid, said the past year had opened even his eyes to just how big the year's first major is globally. "Even though I thought it was massive, I realize how much bigger it is all over the world and how much people really look up to the Masters and the Green Jacket and everything," said Garcia. "So, it's been an amazing experience. It's been awesome.  It's been a tremendous honor, and it's probably, like I said, bigger than maybe I thought or expected. It's been a fun ride." (Reporting by Frank Pingue; Editing by Toby Davis) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 10:42 P.M. E.D.T.
 WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. —  The Latest on President Donald Trumpx (all times local): 11:25 a.m. President Donald Trump says Mexico has "got to help us at the border." Trump says a lot of people are coming into the U.S. from Mexico because they want to take advantage of a U.S. program that protects "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation. Trump ended the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program last year, though a federal judge has ordered the administration to continue renewing permits. Months of negotiations between the White House and lawmakers in both parties have failed to produce a deal to protect the "Dreamers." Trump tweeted about the issue before he attended Easter services at a church near his Palm Beach, Florida, home. Advertisement Asked about the tweets, Trump blamed Democrats, saying they blew a "great, great chance" to make a deal. Advertisement ___ 11:10 a.m. President Donald Trump is attending Easter services at an Episcopal church near his home in Palm Beach, Florida. The president was accompanied by his wife, Melania, and daughter Tiffany. He was expected to return to his Mar-a-Lago estate afterward to join other families for annual Easter festivities, including brunch and an Easter egg hunt. Trump has attended the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea for years. It's also where he and the first lady got married in 2005. The president opened the religious holiday by tweeting "HAPPY EASTER!" to his many followers. He complained in a follow-up tweet about "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that he says make it harder for Border Patrol agents to do their jobs. He also said a deal to help immigrants known as "Dreamers" was "NO MORE." ___ 10:40 a.m. President Donald Trump says he'll stop Mexico's "cash cow" unless it does more to stop its people from crossing into the U.S.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Trump tweets on Easter that Mexico is doing next to "NOTHING" to stop illegal immigration and laughs "at our dumb immigration laws." The president adds that Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump's insistence. Trump says NAFTA hurts the U.S. Trump promised during the presidential campaign to build a southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs coming in from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated the president by not moving as quickly on the wall as he would like. Advertisement ___ 10:25 a.m. President Donald Trump is claiming that Border Patrol agents can't do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge. Trump tweets on Easter that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He offers no information to back up his claims. Trump also says Republicans in charge of the Senate "must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW." Senate rules require 60 votes for legislation in the 100-member Senate. Republicans only control 51 seats, and GOP Senate leaders basically have rejected Trump's calls to change the longstanding rules. Trump also says "NO MORE DACA DEAL!" to help immigrants known as "Dreamers." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MATT STEVENSAPRIL 1, 2018
 Berthinia Rutledge-Brown remembers the first time she sat in a room full of parents whose children had gone to elite colleges. “I cried because I realized that there was a chance that my child would get the education he deserves — the one I could not afford to pay for,” she said. Her son, it turns out, has several options — and they will all be free. Last week Ms. Rutledge-Brown’s son, Micheal Brown, opened the last of his big envelopes, and put an exclamation point at the end of an impressive streak: Mr. Brown, 17, got into all 20 highly selective colleges he applied to, all of which offered him a full ride through a combination of merit- and financial-based scholarships and grants. “He actually earned it,” said Ms. Rutledge-Brown, a drug counselor. “I always knew Mike would get into a good school. I always knew he’d get good scholarship support. But I never imagined this.” Advertisement It is rare but not unheard-of for a student to to get into all eight Ivy League schools and complete the so-called sweep. Mr. Brown and his friends said they knew of several other students who had gotten into all or nearly all of the elite schools to which they applied. Advertisement Still, in an era when colleges seem to want everything from their applicants, going a perfect 20 for 20 stands out. Mr. Brown got into elite private schools like Harvard, Yale, Princeton, the University of Pennsylvania, Northwestern, Stanford and Georgetown — his top picks. He was also admitted to small but highly selective liberal arts schools like Pomona College and large public universities like the University of Michigan. Mr. Brown, a senior at Lamar High School in Houston, said that in addition to the money pledged by the schools, he was awarded about $260,000 through scholarships he sought outside of the college application process. What did it take? Mr. Brown had a 4.68 grade point average when he applied to college, an SAT score of 1540 out of 1600 and an ACT score of 34 out of 36. He was on the school debate team, had done internships and was part of school activities like Key Club. Still, he was initially unsure whether it would be enough to get him into Stanford, a school his mother said he had dreamed of attending for years. On a Saturday in December, Ms. Rutledge-Brown watched as her son logged on to Stanford’s admissions portal to check for an early decision. He took one look at the screen — and screamed. Ms. Rutledge-Brown said she was pulling for her son to attend Stanford because it has been his top choice for so long or Harvard because she thinks it would be an even better fit. Wherever he goes, Mr. Brown said he plans to major in political science and hopes to one day become a lawyer, perhaps a public defender. His academic accomplishments aside, Mr. Brown credited his involvement in guidance programs such as the University of Southern California’s Bovard Scholars program and the Emerge  Fellowship. It was at an orientation for Emerge, surrounded by other parents, that Ms. Rutledge-Brown teared up. She began to realize then what was possible for her son — “possibilities that I never ever considered,” she said. Advertisement Possibilities, she said on Saturday, that are “very real now.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ANDREW R. CHOWAPRIL 1, 2018
 John Legend steps into the sandals of Jesus. And Benedict Cumberbatch stars in a new movie about grief and loss.  JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR LIVE IN CONCERT 8 p.m. on NBC. Celebrate Easter by watching John Legend portray Jesus. The R&B superstar will take center stage to play the son of God in Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice’s once-villified, now-canon rock musical. “I had a hard time turning down the role of Jesus Christ,” Mr. Legend told The Times. He’ll be joined at the live Brooklyn armory performance by a starry cast that includes Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene and Alice Cooper as King Herod. And Brandon Victor Dixon, who recently played another conflicted antagonist as Aaron Burr in “Hamilton,” will take the role of Judas. MLB BASEBALL There may have been a big snowstorm recently, but that’s not stopping baseball from heralding the return of spring. Two games will be televised nationally on Sunday: At 1:10 p.m., the St. Louis Cardinals face the New York Mets on ESPN. And at 8:37 on ESPN, the San Francisco Giants hope to kick-start another year of Even Year Magic as they wrap up their series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, who came within one victory of winning the World Series last year. Rich Hill, who started two World Series games, gets the ball for Los Angeles. BEVERLY HILLS DOG SHOW 6 p.m. on USA. Despite protests at other events, expect to see lots of fur on the red carpet. Advertisement IN ICE COLD BLOOD 7 p.m. on Oxygen. As Fin Tutuola on “Law & Order: Special Victims Unit,” Ice-T has spent a lot of time around crime scenes and corpses. He turns his attention to real victims in this new series, which spotlights crimes involving sex, money, and murder through interviews, archival footage and re-enactments. Is it any good? Well, this writer would prefer not to draw Ice-T’s ire toward critics, as seen in a recent Twitter outburst: “Criticizing things??! Is the EASIEST job in the world. It’s [sic] takes NO talent what so ever,” he wrote on Wednesday. So you’ll have to watch to find out for yourself. THE CHILD IN TIME 9 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Benedict Cumberbatch has built a huge fanbase and drawn accolades for playing emotionless and highly poised characters, as in “Sherlock” and “The Imitation Game.” He plunges into a character with the opposite characteristics in this adaptation of Ian McEwan’s 1987 novel. He plays Stephen Lewis, a writer whose daughter disappears; he and his wife (Kelly Macdonald) struggle to cope with the trauma, and he is soon besieged by memory jumps and hallucinations that leave him with a shaky grasp on reality. ROSEANNE on Amazon Prime. “Fuller House” didn’t get nearly as many headlines. The reboot of Roseanne Barr’s family sitcom stormed to the center of the country’s culture war last week, as the first episode drew huge ratings and earned a congratulatory call from the president. Return to earlier, less contentious times by binging the original nine seasons. (Here’s a guide to the best episodes.) A version of this schedule appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page SP9 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Sunday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 9:21 P.M. E.D.T.
 OAKLAND, Calif. —  Shohei Ohtani could exhale, at last having made it through a whirlwind week and not one, but two separate debuts in the big leagues. He got his first career hit, then three days later earned a win on the mound. Souvenir balls for each occasion. Impressing manager Mike Scioscia with both his poise and repertoire, the two-way star from Japan won his major league pitching debut. He threw three-hit ball over six innings and led the Los Angeles Angels past the Oakland Athletics 7-4 on Sunday. "Personally I feel like I got off to a good start and obviously the team went 3-1 on the first road trip, so I'm very happy with the results," Ohtani said through a translator. Advertisement After being the designated hitter in the opener, he expected to be far more nervous to pitch. It didn't show. Advertisement Reaching the upper 90s (mph) with his fastball and keeping the A's guessing with a nifty splitter, Ohtani struck out six and retired 14 of his final 15 batters. He didn't hit while pitching, as Albert Pujols was the DH and went 0 for 5. Ohtani (1-0) pounded his glove following a 1-2-3 shutdown fifth. He walked one, and the only damage against him came on Matt Chapman's three-run homer in the second. The 23-year-old righty briefly removed his cap and looked to the sky after the drive, then went back to work and blanked the A's the rest of the way. "After that three-run shot, Scioscia came up to me and said I'm doing fine," Ohtani said. Ohtani began the season-opening series by hitting a single on the first pitch he saw as a big leaguer, part of a 1-for-5 day at the plate. He capped the set by posting his first win. Not too shabby, considering he struggled in spring training with his arm and bat. He went 0-1 with a 27.00 ERA in a pair of Cactus League outings and wound up pitching against minor leaguers on back fields, and also had trouble making contact with his swing. "He showed really good command today and was able to move the ball in and out, up and down, and we had a hard time getting consistent contact off of him," Chapman said. Ohtani received ample support from the Los Angeles lineup. Mike Trout hit a tying double in the fifth and Justin Upton followed with a go-ahead sacrifice fly. The Angels added insurance in the seventh, getting Andrelton Simmons' two-run single and an RBI single from Kole Calhoun. Advertisement Ohtani began the game with four straight outs — fanning three — before allowing consecutive singles to Matt Joyce and Stephen Piscotty that set up Chapman's first home run of 2018.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He used everything," Scioscia said. "Outside of maybe one stretch of three hitters in the second inning, that's about as well as you could pitch. ... Shohei has shown great poise in everything he's done — the way he's practiced, the adjustments he's made at the plate when he's swinging the bat. I think that's going to be one of his strengths moving on." The Angels staked Ohtani to a quick 2-0 lead on back-to-back doubles by Luis Valbuena and Jefry Marte second against Daniel Gossett (0-1). Cheers of "Ohtani!" greeted the pitcher as he prepared to throw his first pitch, a 96 mph fastball called strike to Marcus Semien. Ohtani fanned the leadoff man on four pitches and got through the first on 13 pitches, nine for strikes. In all, Ohtani threw 92 pitches, 63 of them strikes. Piscotty's RBI single in the ninth chased Blake Parker. Kenyan Middleton entered to close it out for his first save. The Angels are off to their first 3-1 start since a 100-win season in 2008. Gossett's day was done after four innings and 66 pitches. He allowed four runs and walked two. JOINING THE BABE Ohtani became the first player since Babe Ruth for the Boston Red Sox in 1919 to start on opening day in a non-pitching role, then also start on the mound in the initial 10 games. A ROOKIE DEBUT AND A SEASONED VETERAN After seeing Ohtani on Sunday, the A's on Monday will face 44-year-old Bartolo Colon starting for Texas against his old team in the 529th start of his career — and in his 21st season. TRAINER'S ROOM Angels: LHP Andrew Heaney, on the disabled list retroactive to last Monday with inflammation in his pitching elbow, threw 69 pitches over five times getting up and down during an intrasquad game in Arizona. General manager Billy Eppler will meet with the medical staff before determining the pitcher's next step. Advertisement Athletics: OF Joyce was the DH for a second straight game as he nurses a sore right ankle. Manager Bob Melvin hopes it will only be a day or two before he's back in left. ... RHP Trevor Cahill, who signed a minor league deal last month for a second stint with Oakland, is still building his workload and innings at extended spring training. UP NEXT Angels: RHP JC Ramirez, an 11-game winner last season, pitches the home opener for the Angels against Cleveland. Athletics: RHP Andrew Triggs pitches for the first time since a hip injury last June 9 that required labrum surgery as the A's open a series against Texas. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 7:00 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Tottenham's 28-year wait for a victory at Chelsea is over. By coming from behind to win 3-1 at Stamford Bridge on Sunday, Tottenham shook off a hoodoo that's been a burden for the north London club throughout the entire Premier League era. But it's about more than symbolism or a day's bragging rights. The triumph — secured by Christian Eriksen's powerful, long-range equalizer and Dele Alli's double — has more immediate consequences for both London rivals. Chelsea won't only be surrendering the Premier League trophy to Manchester City but facing a season out of Europe's elite competition. Tottenham, in the fourth and final Champions League place, widened the gap to fifth-place Chelsea to eight points. Arsenal, which beat Stoke 3-0 in Sunday's other game, is five points further back. Advertisement After waiting 22 years to finish above Arsenal, Tottenham is almost certain to finish above its north London rival for a second successive season. Advertisement Qualifying for the lucrative Champions League for a third successive season is more significant for a team that had only contested the European Cup twice in its history before Mauricio Pochettino took charge in 2014. "To create a winning mentality you have to get good results in big stadiums like Bernabeu or Stamford Bridge," Pochettino said, reflecting on the draw at Real Madrid earlier in the season and Sunday's success. "Four years ago ... the idea was to reduce the distance to the top four. That was the first target and we've done that." While Pochettino could eventually savor the praise in west London, it initially looked like he would be facing questions about his goalkeeper. In the end, Pochettino didn't face a single question after the match about Hugo Lloris' early blunder that allowed Chelsea to take the lead after 30 minutes. Lloris came off his line to meet a cross from Victor Moses but missed the punch, allowing Alvaro Morata to head in his first league goal in more than three months. Tottenham didn't capitulate. And the planned route to goal was clear when Eriksen tried his luck from distance five minutes before halftime. The Dane did find the net in stoppage time and Willy Caballero will be wondering just how. Receiving the ball from Alli 25 yards from goal, Eriksen unleashed a thunderous strike that appeared to be heading to the center of the net before swerving to the right. "We nicknamed him lovingly 'Golazo' (great goal) because he has a great talent, a great strike, technique and he makes the team play," Pochettino said. Advertisement Chelsea was hit by a double-punch by Alli in a four-minute spell in the second half. Alli brought down Eric Dier's high ball with one touch and used his second to lift the ball past Caballero in the 62nd minute.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Alli exploited defensive dithering for the second. While Caballero twice blocked Son Heung-min, Andreas Christensen failed to adequately clear and Alli pounced for his eighth goal of the season. Not bad for a player who Gareth Southgate only deployed for 22 minutes in England friendlies against the Netherlands and Italy during the international break. "Dele is not going to be affected if he plays or doesn't play," Pochettino said. "He's got a great character, he's so strong, he's a fighter — very competitive. He's not going to be affected, but then we have to help him." At Chelsea, it is manager Antonio Conte who might need helping. The Italian, who won the title in his first season, is facing the risk of being dismissed at the end of his second campaign after an alarming slump to fifth. "I don't know, you have to ask the club, not me," Conte said. "The club has to take the decision. But I repeat. I am not worried about this." ___ LACAZETTE'S RETURN Alexandre Lacazette made a scoring return to the Arsenal side after a seven-week injury layoff. With fourth place increasingly out of sight for Arsenal, beating Stoke was just about being in the right shape for the Europa League quarterfinals. The first leg is on Thursday against CSKA Moscow in the competition that provides Arsenal's only route into the Champions League if the trophy is collected. But it was a lackluster performance against Stoke, with jeers in the Emirates Stadium from the home fans who did turn up. Advertisement The deadlock was broken in the 75th minute by Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang from the penalty spot after Bruno Martins Indi was penalized for fouling Mesut Ozil despite appearing to win the ball. Aubameyang grabbed a second but was denied a hat trick when Lacazette took the second penalty after being fouled by Badou Ndiaye. ___ AP Premier League coverage: www.apnews.com/tag/PremierLeague We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:00 P.M. E.D.T.
 COLUMBUS, Ohio —  Katie Smith has been running around the women's Final Four all weekend, serving as the unofficial hostess of the sport's biggest event. There were awards to hand out, courts to dedicate and parties to attend. So the best women's basketball player from Ohio in history decided to skip going to San Antonio, where the men's Final Four is being held, to be announced as part of the 2018 Basketball Hall of Fame class. "I have a lot of stuff here; that's why I felt I would like to be in Columbus," Smith told The Associated Press. "It's the first time we're hosting and I'm super invested in things. The city is putting on a good show. It feels like the perfect match to celebrate here with those that were with me from the beginning. They didn't fight me much about staying." Smith is one of the most decorated players in all of women's basketball. She retired following the 2013 season as the top scorer in women's professional basketball history with 7,885 points, and she ranked second in the WNBA with 6,452 points at that point. Advertisement "You take pride in what you do and to be recognized for it means a lot," Smith said. "When you are playing, you're not thinking about the Hall of Fame. I played for a long time and it does mean a lot to be recognized among the best." Advertisement She had a stellar career at Ohio State, where she helped guide the Buckeyes to the NCAA title game as a freshman and broke the Big Ten's all-time scoring record for both men and women. She then won WNBA titles in 2006 and 2008 with the Detroit Shock and two ABL titles with the Columbus Quest, guiding that team to the only two championships in league history. That second Quest title team never got a chance to receive its championship rings because the league folded, so coach Brian Agler spearheaded a movement to get those players their jewelry. Smith and her teammates received them Saturday night at an event in front of a 1,000 fans. They held an autograph-signing, where Smith and her former Quest teammates basked in the adoration of their fans. "It was unfortunate they never got a chance to be celebrated for winning that championship, and this was the perfect place to give them the long overdue recognition," Agler said. "If you think about that team, they had four Olympians on it and it might have been one of the best women's basketball teams ever."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Smith, who will be inducted in the hall in her first year of eligibility is joined in the class by Tina Thompson, Steve Nash, Jason Kidd, Grant Hill, Ray Allen, Maurice Cheeks, Lefty Driesell, Dino Radja, Charlie Scott, Rod Thorn, Ora Mae Washington and Rick Welts. "I've coached a lot of players, but never have I coached one more competitive than Katie," Agler said. "With the success she's had both at the collegiate level and the championships she won at the professional level and the Olympic gold medals, I can't imagine anyone else being more deserving than her being inducted." The 43-year-old Smith was honored to be included in the same class as Thompson, against whom she spent years playing while in the WNBA but was a teammate of hers in USA Basketball. "We're forever linked. The great thing is I respect Tina on and off the court," Smith said. "She's a great person and a great player. It is fun to go in with someone I really appreciate." Advertisement The two were announced as part of the 2018 Women's Basketball Hall of Fame class earlier this year. She might have a conflict with the September induction ceremony for the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame; she is now the head coach of the New York Liberty, and there is a chance the team could be playing in the WNBA playoffs the same weekend. "If that's the choice I have to make, I'll be happy to try and figure that one out," Smith said, laughing. "If that happens, I'll never want to leave this year." ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 9:36 P.M. E.D.T.
 SEATTLE —  Dee Gordon isn't known for hitting home runs, and before this year he'd never played the outfield. But on Sunday, his power and his glove in center field led the Seattle Mariners to a 5-4 win against the Cleveland Indians. Gordon, who has never hit more than four homers in a season, led off the seventh inning with a tiebreaking shot to right off Dan Otero (0-1). Gordon clearly knew he'd hit it well — after making contact, he watched the ball and walked out of the batter's box. "It was a 2-2 game in the bottom of the seventh inning and it put us ahead, so I was excited," he said. After he rounded the bases, Gordon leapt high for a celebratory high-five with teammate Jean Segura in the on-deck circle. Advertisement "The scariest thing for me in the game was after Dee hit the home run and crossed the plate," Seattle manager Scott Servais said. "The high-five he gave, I've never seen anybody jump that high after a home run." Advertisement Gordon, an All-Star second baseman before the Mariners acquired him from Miami last offseason and moved him to center field, also made a sliding catch in the third after racing to deep left-center on a drive by Jason Kipnis. "That slide catch was pretty cool," Gordon said. "That was my first-ever slide catch." Along with Gordon's big contributions, Mitch Haniger homered and Mike Leake pitched seven strong innings for Seattle. Edwin Encarnacion went deep twice for the Indians, his 29th career multihomer game Leake (1-0) gave up two runs and five hits. He has allowed three runs or fewer in all six starts since joining the Mariners late last season. Gordon's homer broke a 2-all tie and, a few batters later, Haniger added a two-run drive off reliever Tyler Olson to give Seattle a 5-2 lead.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. They were the first runs Olson has allowed with Cleveland — last year he threw 20 scoreless innings in 30 appearances for the Indians. Encarnacion cut the lead to one with his second homer in the eighth, a two-run shot. "It's only three games and I feel great at the plate," Encarnacion said. "I'm seeing the ball good and I want to continue to be that consistent." Edwin Diaz struck out all three batters in the ninth for his second save. Cleveland starter Trevor Bauer allowed two runs and five hits in five innings, striking out seven and walking three. STARTING STRONG Seattle took two of three in the season-opening series, the first time since last August the Indians lost a regular-season series. "Our team, we know what we've got and we think we're good," Haniger said. "We're going to prove a lot of people wrong." Cleveland closed out last season going unbeaten in their final 18 series (15 wins, three ties) before losing to the New York Yankees in their best-of-five AL Division Series. Advertisement TRAINER'S ROOM Mariners: Nelson Cruz twisted his right ankle Saturday slipping on the dugout steps after a home run. Cruz had an MRI on Sunday morning. "We'll have to wait and see what the results are," Servais said. "If it's going to be longer than three or four days, we'll have to make a roster decision. Right now we'll keep our fingers crossed he'll bounce back." ... OF Ben Gamel, on the disabled list with a strained right oblique, will join Triple-A Tacoma for some simulated games this week and begin a rehab assignment with Tacoma when the team's season starts Thursday. ... RHP Erasmo Ramirez is expected to throw in a simulated game with Tacoma as he recovers from a strained lat muscle, and C Mike Zunino (left oblique strain) might also play in a simulated game this week. UP NEXT Indians: Cleveland begins a three-game series at the Los Angeles Angels on Monday. RHP Mike Clevinger will make his first start of the season. Clevinger is 2-0 with a 3.94 ERA in four career starts against the Angels. Mariners: LHP Marco Gonzales opens a two-game series at San Francisco on Tuesday. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 8:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 ARLINGTON, Texas —  Must be nice to have a rotation so good that Gerrit Cole is the No. 4 starter. Cole struck out 11 over seven innings in his Houston debut and the World Series champion Astros rolled to an 8-2 victory over the Texas Rangers on Sunday to take three of four from their state rivals in the season-opening series. The 2015 All-Star allowed two hits after teammate Lance McCullers Jr. struck out 10 in another easy Houston win Saturday. They followed a pair of Cy Young Award winners to the mound in Justin Verlander and Dallas Keuchel. Cole started on opening day last year for Pittsburgh before an offseason trade to the Astros. "This is obviously high-end stuff across the board," Houston manager A.J. Hinch said. "Gerrit would have pitched opening day for a lot of teams, and to have him pitch the fourth game of the year is really indicative of the depth of this rotation." The first hit off Cole (1-0) was slugger Joey Gallo's opposite-field homer just over the tall wall in left field in the first inning against a four-man outfield. Third baseman Alex Bregman gave chase down the line on Gallo's first of the season. Advertisement Facing the four-man outfield again in the eighth, Gallo singled through the vacant left side of the infield. Advertisement "You talking about the one that went out of the ballpark?" Texas manager Jeff Banister said. "It was a great job by him beating the shift. I don't think you can put a fifth outfielder over the fence." Derek Fisher had a tying RBI triple in the fifth and scored the go-ahead run on George Springer's sacrifice fly against lefty Mike Minor (0-1), making his Texas debut and first major league start since 2014. Carlos Correa doubled home two runs in the seventh and AL MVP Jose Altuve had three hits to finish 9 for 16 in the series. Evan Gattis had three hits and three RBIs, including a pair of run-scoring doubles. Max Stassi added an RBI single. Cole struck out the side in the fifth and seventh innings for his most strikeouts since matching his career high of 12 in his final start of 2014. The other hit Cole allowed was Elvis Andrus' leadoff double in the sixth, when he got an inning-ending double play with runners at the corners to preserve a 4-1 lead.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He was in total control of the game, and I think he finished even stronger than he started," Hinch said. "His stuff was electrifying at the end of the game. What a great way to start his Astros career." Minor, who missed two big league seasons after shoulder surgery in 2015, was a reliever in Kansas City last season before signing as a free agent. He gave up three hits and two runs with five strikeouts in 4 2/3 innings. "I felt like my old self again," Minor said. "Something to build on. I think the strength's going to get better as the season goes on." Advertisement BOTTOM FEEDERS Before Drew Robinson homered in the eighth for Texas, the bottom five hitters in the order were a combined 1 for 38 this season. With center fielder Delino DeShields out at least a month with a broken left hand, Ryan Rua and Robinson could be forced into the lineup more instead of platooning in left. Rookie Carlos Tocci is an option in center, but is considered a defense-first outfielder right now. TRAINER'S ROOM Astros: 1B Yuli Gurriel is expected to be in the lineup Tuesday, a day after another batting practice session at the Astros' spring training facility in Florida. Gurriel started the season on the restricted list to serve his five-game suspension for an inappropriate gesture after homering against Japanese pitcher Yu Darvish of the Dodgers in Game 3 of the World Series. Gurriel had surgery for a broken bone in his left hand Feb. 28. UP NEXT Astros: RHP Charlie Morton, who was on the mound for the final out in Game 7 of the World Series in Los Angeles, starts the home opener against Baltimore on Monday. Rangers: RHP Bartolo Colon is scheduled to start Texas' first road game in Oakland on Monday. The 44-year-old right-hander is set to become the second-oldest player for Texas behind Nolan Ryan, who was 46 when he made the final start of his career in 1993. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 6:09 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Villanova has made more 3-pointers than any team in NCAA Division I history and fittingly set a Final Four single-game record for made 3s to reach Monday's national championship game . It's made them a clear favorite to beat Michigan for their second national championship in three seasons. And sure, their ability to keep hitting from outside — even if it isn't at a record pace — against the Wolverines' tough defense will play a big role in reaching that goal. Yet there's more beyond the obvious glow from all those deep shots. They'll have to do a better job rebounding than they did in some of their few losses. And they'll have to keep the ball moving while racking up assists with a deep well of shooters on the ready, something they've done nearly all year. "It's very good — we've been very unselfish this year," redshirt junior guard Phil Booth said Sunday. "We know, always look for the best shot. Not taking too many 3s is what we've been doing a good job of. ... And when we get a lot of assists, good things happen." Advertisement Villanova (35-4) is atop KenPom's adjusted offensive efficiency at 127.6 points per 100 possessions. That's better than any team on other than Wisconsin in 2015 (129.0) dating all the way back to the 2002 season. Advertisement They'll face a tough challenge against a Michigan defense ranked third by KenPom (90.4 points allowed per 100 possessions) and hoping for an uglier game compared to Villanova's free-flowing romp against Kansas in Saturday's national semifinals. Villanova kept the ball moving — sometimes whipping it around the perimeter, other times on drive-and-kickout plays — to stay a step ahead of the Jayhawks' befuddled defense, which left coach Bill Self in a perpetual state of exasperation through what became a 40-minute shooting show. By the end, Villanova had assisted on 12 of its Final Four-record 18 3-pointers, and finished the game with 20 assists on 36 baskets. "It just gets everybody touches, everybody staying aggressive," redshirt junior Mikal Bridges said. "It's kind of tough for maybe a guy throughout the whole game not touching the ball at all. You're just not going to be ready. It's just normal.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "But touching the ball every possession and moving without the ball, then when it swings to you and you're open or have to make a play, everybody has confidence in each other to make that play and find each other." The assist-to-basket ratio can offer a glimpse of how well things are working for the Wildcats. They have assisted on 55.6 percent of their baskets in wins, but just 42.6 percent in their four losses — including 39.3 percent in a loss to St. John's on Feb. 7 and 34.6 percent in a loss to Providence a week later. Perhaps not coincidentally, Villanova struggled from outside in both of those games in particular. The Wildcats made 2 of 18 3-pointers in the second half of the loss to the Red Storm, then made 3 of 20 for the game against the Friars. The other thing to watch will be rebounding. Villanova was beaten on the glass in in three of its four losses, with Butler, St. John's and Providence offsetting misses by combining to average 13.7 second-chance points. Advertisement Yet Villanova's work on the glass on a bad shooting day, along with a tough defensive effort, is why the Wildcats reached San Antonio. Villanova shot just 33 percent and went 4 of 24 from 3-point range in the Elite Eight win against Texas Tech, but took a 51-33 rebounding advantage that included 20 offensive rebounds. It's proof that Villanova can win even if those shots aren't falling. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 6:21 P.M. E.D.T.
 ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. —  The Boston Red Sox have never started a season with pitching like this. Hector Velazquez continued a riveting stretch by the rotation, working into the sixth inning and leading the Red Sox over the Tampa Bay Rays 2-1 Sunday for their third win in a row. The first four Boston starters — Chris Sale, David Price, Rick Porcello and Velazquez - combined to give up two runs over 24 innings. The Red Sox, citing the Elias Sports Bureau, said it's the first time in the club's 118-year history the starters allowed one run or fewer in each of the first four regular-season games. The defending AL East champions won three of four at Tropicana Field under new manager Alex Cora. "Our starting pitchers did an outstanding job in this series," Cora said. "For me, it's great, it's a good start. We've been playing well for a while now." Velazquez (1-0) allowed one run and five hits in 5 2/3 innings. Marcus Walden, Bobby Poyner, Matt Barnes and Joe Kelly, who got three outs for his first career save, combined for 3 1/3 scoreless innings of three-hit relief. Advertisement Kelly gave up two-out singles to Mallex Smith and Adeiny Hechavarria in the ninth before striking out Denard Span. Cora said closer Craig Kimbrel was not available after saving games Friday night and Saturday. Advertisement "They pitched great," Red Sox right fielder Mookie Betts said. "We didn't give them too much run support but they held up for us. If we can win these low-scoring games, we know we can win the high ones, too." Brad Miller homered for the Rays, who totaled just nine runs in the series. "Beginning of the year, and also those are pretty good pitchers over there," Miller said. "Coming right out of the gate with three Cy Young Award winners, it's no easy task." The Rays hit .190 (24 for 126) in the series. Boston took a 2-1 lead in the sixth on Rafael Devers' one-out, bases-loaded RBI single off Yonny Chirinos. Tampa Bay's defense kept the Red Sox from a big inning as right fielder Carlos Gomez threw out Brock Holt, who tried to score from second on Devers' hit, and left fielder Smith made a lunging catch on J.D. Martinez. Devers has driven in a run in six straight regular season games, dating to last year. Miller put the Rays ahead 1-0 with a leadoff homer in the second.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Martinez tied it at 1 with his first Boston RBI, coming on a fifth-inning single off Jake Faria. Jose Alvarado (0-1) then replaced Faria after Martinez's hit and worked out of a two-on, no-out jam. Faria allowed one run and four hits in four-plus innings. Boston's Xander Bogaerts, who went 8 for 12 with five doubles and a homer over the first three games, was hitless in five at-bats. TRAINER'S ROOM Red Sox: OF Andrew Benintendi didn't start after playing three days on the artifical turf. He is hitless in 11 at-bats during the season-opening series. Benintendi entered as a defensive replacement in the ninth. BRADLEY'S BATTLE Jackie Bradley Jr. had a rare hit at Tropicana Field, getting a single in the sixth inning and later scoring the go-ahead run on Devers' hit. He went 1 for 10 in the series and is a career .158 hitter (19 for 120) at the ballpark. Advertisement RARE This just the second time the Rays have lost at least three consecutive games when holding an opponent to three runs or fewer. The other time was a four-game stretch June 18-22, 2003, against the New York Yankees and Florida. UP NEXT Red Sox: LHP Brian Johnson makes his seventh career start Monday in the first of two interleague game at Miami. He went 2-0 with a 4.33 ERA in five starts last season. Rays: With just three healthy starters — Chris Archer, Blake Snell and Faria — on the roster, manager Kevin Cash will use a second bullpen day in three days Monday when Tampa Bay travels to New York for the Yankees' home opener. RHP Austin Pruitt will start against Yankees LHP Jordan Montgomery. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:03 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  As Mark Zuckerberg prepares to testify before Congress over Facebook's privacy fiasco, public-relations experts who have prepped CEOs before have plenty of advice on handling the hot seat. Among them: Appear sympathetic and be ready for a beating. Take responsibility. Don't feign ignorance. And keep in mind that this is more political theater than public policy. The so-called "optics" —how things look— are as important as what you say. The stakes are high: CEOs testifying in Washington have lost jobs, faced perjury investigations and otherwise endured public humiliation. It's not comfortable for anyone in a position of power to essentially kowtow to Congress in a televised setting. "It's an intense, grinding experience, draining psychologically and physically," said Ronn Torossian, founder and CEO of the PR agency 5WPR. Advertisement As with others who have coached CEOs in the past, he couldn't name former clients because of confidentiality agreements. Torossian said appearing before Congress is "a very humbling experience for powerful people." But Zuckerberg can learn from those who have gone before him. Advertisement ___ PREPARE, PREPARE, PREPARE Zuckerberg should spend days, if not weeks, familiarizing himself with the layout of the hearing room and with specific members of Congress, including the toughest questions they are likely to ask. The Facebook CEO has to appear willing to answer questions. When then-BP chief Tony Hayward testified before Congress about the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010, he denied involvement or knowledge of the problem in many cases. That's a classic response designed to avoid legal trouble, but it didn't make him sympathetic to viewers. Hayward lost his job about a month later. "He was clearly very well trained from lawyers, but it didn't rest well with the American public," said Richard Levick, founder and CEO of public-relations firm Levick. He said Zuckerberg needs advice from lobbyists and communications professionals, too. Helio Fred Garcia, who as president of Logos Consulting Group has prepped unnamed banking, pharmaceutical and other executives, said a CEO client of his went through a mock hearing in which someone said very harsh things to rattle him. He was shown video of his expression to make sure he wouldn't replicate it in front of the Senate. The verdict? "He kept his job, so it went fine," Garcia said. ___ ARRIVE MODESTLY One of the most infamous missteps happened before the CEOs even got in the door. In 2008, CEOs of the three big automakers flew private jets to Washington to ask Congress for federal bailout money. A public relations fiasco ensued.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When the executives went back to Capitol Hill two weeks later for a second round of hearings, they traveled by car. ___ TAKE YOUR LUMPS CEOs may be used to getting their own way, but they aren't in control during hearings. Garcia said that can cause them "a great deal of distress." Zuckerberg has to understand he's a target and swallow his pride. His job isn't to try to persuade the senators of anything, but to let senators express their anger. Advertisement "This isn't an educational forum," Garcia said. "It's a highly ritualized piece of theater." ___ DON'T FEIGN IGNORANCE When Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf appeared before the Senate Banking Committee in 2016 on the bank's creation of unauthorized accounts, he feigned ignorance about some details. He was roasted by senators for not acknowledging the extent of the problem and his responsibility of it. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and other senators called for his firing; he stepped down weeks later. It's crucial to take responsibility and come across as straightforward, said John Hellerman, founder of PR firm Hellerman Communications. At the same time, Zuckerberg can't get too bogged down in technical explanations, Garcia said. A hearing puts the spotlight on leadership and accountability, not technical details. Garcia said Zuckerberg has to "speak in leadership terms: 'This was a massive failure and I apologize.'" ___ SPIN IT FORWARD Zuckerberg isn't likely to lose his job over this, but a bad congressional appearance can have other consequences — mainly, the controversy staying in the news. So his goal will be to acknowledge anger and try to move on. He has to accept that regulation is likely, "so this is his chance to help shape and guide what that regulation might look like," Hellerman said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 9:51 A.M. E.D.T.
 ATLANTA —  Tyrone Brooks was 22 years old and 400 miles away, seeking clues to an unsolved lynching as old as he was, when he got the news that Martin Luther King Jr. was dead. Stunned, Brooks dropped everything and drove to Memphis, crying all the way. The next day, King's closest confidant, the Rev. Ralph David Abernathy, told Brooks: "Tighten your belts and dry your tears. If you love Martin Luther King as you say you do, help me carry on his work." The members of King's tight circle barely paused to grieve. They plunged into carrying out his unfinished work, and turned it into a lifelong vow. Some went into politics. A few continued to serve the organization that King led or started their own. Others returned to the pulpit, preaching a gospel of racial liberation. Advertisement And the King legacy continues, evident today in a new generation protesting many of the same issues King confronted : inequality, police brutality and poverty. Advertisement "Legally, segregation was outlawed, but we still face a danger in public space," said Bree Newsome, who climbed a pole to snatch down the Confederate flag at the South Carolina statehouse in 2015. "In that way, I absolutely feel that what we're doing is continuing in the legacy of Martin Luther King." Even so, the problems persist. A poll by the Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found only 1 in 10 African Americans think the United States has achieved all or most of the goals of the civil rights movement. Among whites, only 35 percent believe those goals have been at least mostly achieved. "A lot of people across the country see injustice or inequality as unfortunate, almost like a car accident, instead of unjust and something they have to do something about," said Rashad Robinson, 39, who uses King's example as a guide in his work as executive director of the online civil rights group Color of Change. "People talk a lot about empathy, but King was really building power. Power is the ability to change the rules, and Dr. King was all about changing the rules." Jesse Jackson parlayed his service at King's side into a blend of grassroots activism and elective politics. Through aggressive voter registration, Jackson assembled a base of support patterned after the "beloved community" King envisioned for America and ran for president twice in the 1980s. His candidacy is widely considered to have laid the foundation for the election of the first black president, Barack Obama, in 2008. "We were determined to keep moving, in his name," Jackson said. After the assassination, Brooks helped lead the Mule Train — a caravan of mule-drawn wagons that symbolized poverty — out of the Deep South to Washington for the Poor People's Campaign, King's last big protest, in the summer of 1968. He followed up his career in King's Southern Christian Leadership Conference with nearly four decades as a Georgia legislator, pushing legislation that would eventually remove the Confederate symbol from the state flag.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Now 72, Brooks does advocacy work around the same 1946 quadruple lynching he was pursuing 50 years ago. No one was ever arrested or charged in the case. "Some of us are so committed to making sure the dream never dies, we committed to this struggle for life," Brooks said. Advertisement Though only 13 when King was killed, the Rev. Al Sharpton was already an SCLC activist. He said his dramatic approach, aimed at seizing media attention and the national spotlight, came from King's playbook. "King knew how to deal with movement theater and we had to recreate that," said Sharpton, 63. "When people say, 'All they want is publicity,' that's exactly what we want. That's what King wanted. Because if you can't make something a public issue, no one will seek to solve it." That strategy has largely been the focus of the Rev. William Barber, who began the Moral Mondays movement in North Carolina in 2013 to push back against rollbacks on education, health care and voting. "It's time to change the moral narrative," said Barber, 54, who will lead a revival of the Poor People's Campaign this spring to attract new attention to poverty. Brittany Packnett, 33, who became an activist after Michael Brown was killed by a white police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014, said her activism is fueled by King's willingness to "sacrifice himself for a freedom he may never see." "If Dr. King hadn't done this for us, we wouldn't be here," Packnett said. "As persistent as injustice is, so will we be." ___ ___ For AP's complete coverage marking 50 years since Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:21 A.M. E.D.T.
 NASHVILLE, Tenn. —  The Buffalo Sabres saw defenseman Victor Antipin taken off the ice on a stretcher after being boarded. Then, they took it out on the Nashville Predators by scoring three goals on the ensuing 5-minute major. "We were able to make them pay a little bit," Buffalo center Sam Reinhart said. Reinhart had a hat trick with Jack Eichel adding a career-high five assists as the Sabres stunned the NHL-leading Predators 7-4 Saturday night. "It's never easy to see a teammate get injured," Eichel said. "It was a good job by our team responding and putting it on the scoreboard where it counts." The Predators needed a win and a regulation loss by Winnipeg to clinch their first Central Division title, and a loss by Vegas in any fashion for the defending Western Conference champs for their first conference banner in the regular season. But Winnipeg beat Toronto 3-1, and the Predators played a sloppy game giving up a season-high in goals to the NHL's last-place team. Advertisement Despite a league-worst 60 points, the Sabres outshot Nashville from the start and chased goalie Pekka Rinne after he gave up six goals on 29 shots through two periods. Advertisement Jason Pominville and Ryan O'Reilly also scored for Buffalo, and Eichel tied a franchise single-game record with his assists. P.K. Subban, Austin Watson, Kyle Turris and Nick Bonino scored for Nashville. The Sabres took control with the three goals — two by Reinhart — during those 5 minutes after Antipin was boarded by Nashville forward Scott Hartnell behind the Buffalo net at 14:09 of the second. Antipin was strapped to a backboard and taken off the ice on a stretcher. "The guys rallied around Victor and made a point to come out, and that was the difference in the game," Buffalo coach Phil Housley said. Reinhart tied it up at 4 just 55 seconds into the power play, and he put Buffalo ahead at 17:18 with his second goal. Kyle Okposo scored his second of the night at 19:00 for the big lead. "You're taught as a young kid obviously to finish your checks," Hartnell said of his hit on Antipin. "I wasn't head-hunting. We were leading the game at that time. A 5-minute penalty, and they scored three quick ones and it's a totally different ballgame. It's just unfortunate. I feel really bad about it."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. This game also marked the NHL debut of Nashville rookie Eeli Tolvanen , and coach Peter Laviolette gave Filip Forsberg the night off and replaced him with the Finn who set the KHL scoring record for an 18-year-old with Jokerit before being eliminated in the second round of the playoffs. Pominville started the scoring 43 seconds in. Nashville led 2-1 at the end of the first with Subban scoring on a slap shot that deflected off Sabres defenseman Rasmus Ristolainen at 2:59 for a rare Nashville power-play goal. The Predators came into the game 3 of 49 on the man advantage since March 1. Nashville led 2-1 at 17:00 of the first on Watson's goal, and Turris made it 3-1 a couple minutes into the second. Advertisement O'Reilly scored at 5:45 of the second on the power play, and Okposo tied it up at 3 with a wrister from the slot off a rebound at 7:20. The Predators took a 4-3 lead at 12:50 when Bonino hopped over Johnson's left leg and backhanded the puck into the net. Buffalo lots its challenge for goaltender interference with Johnson on his belly in the crease. Reinhart got his hat trick at 11:43 of the third. Buffalo finished 4 of 9 on the power play. "We came out flat the whole 60 minutes," Nashville captain Roman Josi said. "We never played up to our potential, and it just wasn't good enough." NOTES: Predators forward Viktor Arvidsson, Nashville's leading goal scorer, played only 43 seconds of the second before going to the locker room to stay. The Predators had no update on his status after the game. ... Eichel had Buffalo's first five-point game since Thomas Vanek on Jan. 31, 2013, at Boston. Eichel now has 102 career assists. ... Fisher played in his 1,100th career NHL game. UP NEXT Sabres: Visit Toronto on Monday night. Predators: Visit Tampa Bay on Sunday. ___ More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 3:00 P.M. E.D.T.
 MIAMI —  Monday is the day that the Miami Heat will gather for the annual team picture. They're always set up the same way: coaches sitting in the middle of the front row, the team's shorter players sitting on either side of Erik Spoelstra and his assistants, support staff and taller players standing in the back. Some smiles might be forced. The Heat are dealing with a 7-foot problem, at the wrong time of year. Center Hassan Whiteside was fined an undisclosed amount Sunday for "comments detrimental to the team" — a response to his remarks expressing frustration with his role. He went on an expletive-laden tirade after Miami's 110-109 overtime loss Saturday to the Brooklyn Nets, when the Heat missed a chance to clinch a playoff spot, saying he should play more and might be better elsewhere. The team had no additional comment Sunday. They resume practice Monday, when Whiteside's words will be a hot topic again. "Man, it's annoying, you know. Why we matching up? We got one of the best centers in the league," Whiteside said Saturday night. "Why we matching up? A lot of teams don't have a good center." Advertisement Whiteside didn't play in the final 21 minutes on Saturday — the last four of the third quarter, then all of the fourth quarter and overtime. The Nets went small, so the Heat went small. It's not an uncommon strategy, and Whiteside is only a few days removed from a nine-game absence for what was called hip pain. Advertisement Plus, he asked to be subbed out Saturday four minutes after tipoff, a sign that his conditioning isn't optimal yet. The whole night was a dichotomy, with Whiteside first asking not to play, then complaining he didn't play enough. "He had some good moments and then they went to the smaller lineup," Spoelstra said. "Their speed got to our size." The Nets are a major matchup problem for Miami. Brooklyn will finish well out of the playoff race, and went 3-1 against the Heat this season. The end of the game was frustrating for the Heat, who felt calls didn't go their way. And Spoelstra lamented a timeout during a wild scramble with about 5 seconds left, a whistle he got moments before James Johnson made a shot that would have put Miami ahead. Then Whiteside spoke at his locker, and a bad night got worse. "I don't know if it's because I'm on a minutes restriction or what," Whiteside said. "But the minutes have been like that all year. It's just really frustrating and it's been frustrating."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He has immense talent, which is why Miami — which took him off the NBA scrap heap and watched him become a star — gave him a four-year deal that could be worth $98 million if he doesn't opt out after next season. Whiteside led the league in blocked shots two seasons ago, then led it in rebounding last season. He's had great moments: a tip-in at the buzzer with an injured hand to beat Detroit last season, four triple-doubles, 15 consecutive double-doubles late last season when the Heat were trying to make the playoffs. He also has a befuddling side. The Heat sent him home two years ago after an ejection against San Antonio, a night when Dwyane Wade said "sometimes, we don't know what he is thinking." Whiteside has lauded himself for putting up good numbers in games where the Heat lose, which isn't the best look. He's had three stints out of the lineup this season for injuries, two for bone bruises in his knee and the most recent one for the hip issue. Miami preaches team over everything. Wade is Heat royalty; he's back now but doesn't start, and usually isn't even the first guy off the bench. Udonis Haslem's No. 40 will sway from the rafters one day; he hasn't had a regular playing role in three years, which frustrates him but he still shows up to work and leads behind the scenes. Advertisement It's not even uncommon for a Heat player to start one game and sit out the next. It is uncommon, however, for someone to speak out like Whiteside did. He is playing seven minutes fewer per game than he did a year ago, and the Heat are quite happy with big men Bam Adebayo and Kelly Olynyk in the lineup. With playoffs looming, the Heat will want this schism resolved — fast. "It's tough," Whiteside said. "I don't know man, it's crazy. I don't understand it." ___ More NBA basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 1:51 A.M. E.D.T.
 SEATTLE —  Jeisson Vargas doesn't like to talk much. His scoring — and his Montreal Impact teammates — say plenty about him. Vargas scored on a point-blank shot in the 60th minute, and the Impact beat the short-handed Seattle Sounders 1-0 on Saturday night. "A lot of times, guys with that (quiet) type of personality aren't great on the field, but he has been fantastic for us," goalkeeper Evan Bush said of Chilean native Vargas, who is in his first MLS season. "I came in here and said congratulations to him, and he was laughing and smiling, just like a kid. "His personality and enthusiasm and playful attitude he has to play the game, it's infectious, and you can sense that." Advertisement Montreal won its second straight after an 0-2-0 start, with both wins coming against the last two MLS Cup winners — 1-0 against defending champion Toronto on March 17, and now against 2016 titlist Seattle. Advertisement "I'm quite pleased with the results, and I'm quite pleased with the way we played the game," coach Remi Garde said. "We went under pressure in the second half, even though we were a man up. We knew Seattle was a good team, especially in home games. We have these two games in a row, so we're going to try to keep this momentum." The Sounders are 0-3-0 for the second time in club history. They also dropped three in a row to start the 2016 season before winning the MLS Cup. "While we had some good moments — we had a couple of sequences where we were able to keep possession in their field, win the ball back, stuff like that — it's not as good as we would have liked," Sounders coach Brian Schmetzer said. "I thought the chances we created with 10 men were pretty decent. Some of those set pieces we were dangerous on."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ignacio Piatti set up Vargas' goal. Piatti had the ball on the top right side of the 6-yard box. He tried to get closer to the net, but couldn't get psat Seattle defender Roman Torres. Piatti passed it back toward the top of the 6, and Vargas sent a wide-open shot into the back left corner, his second goal of the year. Vargas nearly had one in the first half when he launched a 26-yard free kick over a five-man Seattle wall. But Sounders goalkeeper Stefan Frei lunged and slapped it away from the left post and over the top. "That was a big goal, and I'm really happy for him," defender Ken Krolicki said. "He could have had the one in the first half. But one goal is all you need if you defend well." Seattle, which has yet to score this season, had a player sent off with a red card for the third straight game. This time, it was defender Kelvin Leerdam in the 40th minute after he undercut Daniel Lovitz when the Impact defender leaped for a ball on the left side near midfield. As the two got up and scuffled after the foul, Leerdam slapped Lovitz on the left side of his head. A video review was called, and referee Ismail Elfath came back from it to send Leerdam off the field. Lovitz was issued a yellow for the scuffle. That was the second game in a row Seattle has lost a player to a straight red following a video review. Clint Dempsey was ejected in the 37th minute of a 3-0 loss at Dallas on March 18. Tony Alfaro picked up a second yellow and subsequent red in the 83rd minute of a season-opening 1-0 defeat to Los Angeles FC on March 4. Advertisement The Sounders have been down a man for 110 of the 270 minutes they've played this year. "I get it - guys get heated in the heat of the moment," Schmetzer said. "But that's when you have to be most composed. That sort of stuff is going to stop." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 1:06 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN DIEGO —  Milwaukee's bold offseason moves for Christian Yelich and Lorenzo Cain are working quite well so far. Yelich tied his career high with five hits to lead a dominating performance by the Nos. 2-3-4 hitters for the Brewers, who swept the San Diego Padres with a 7-3 victory Saturday night. Yelich scored three times and drove in two runs as Milwaukee improved to 3-0 for the first time since it won its first five games in 2006. Cain had three hits and two RBIs, and Travis Shaw drove in three runs. "It could be a fun year for the middle of the order," Shaw said. "Tonight's special; 2-3-4 get on, what, 10 times? Yelich with five hits. His bat-to-ball skills are unbelievable. He finds a way to get the barrel to the ball every single time no matter the count. He's fun to watch." Advertisement The Brewers bolstered their outfield when they acquired Yelich in a January trade with Miami and signed Cain to an $80 million, five-year contract during free agency. Advertisement Yelich matched the career high he set when he had five hits for the Marlins against Philadelphia on Oct. 3, 2015. "Anytime you do that there's always a little luck involved," he said. "There's some ground balls that just missed some people's gloves and they find some grass out there, but it's a good feeling. You get on base in front of the big guys, with Lo Cain, and start putting pressure on the other team every time you get out there and usually good things happen when you do that." Yelich had his first three hits off Luis Perdomo (0-1), including a single in the first, a single in the third and an RBI double in the fourth. He then singled off Robbie Erlin in the sixth and added an RBI single in the eighth to chase Erlin, who missed all of 2017 while rehabbing from reconstructive elbow surgery. Shaw singled in Yelich in the first and brought in Yelich and Cain in the third with a double that bounced over the left-field fence. Cain singled in Yelich in the fourth and added an RBI single in the eighth. Yelich, Cain and Shaw had 10 of the Brewers' 12 hits. Cain and Shaw each walked once. "They're a good team," San Diego manager Andy Green said. "You make mistakes to the heart of their order, they're going to make you pay. Those are real hitters in the middle of their order."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. With the Padres facing a right-hander, Ryan Braun was out of the lineup and left-handed hitting Eric Thames started at first and batted leadoff. Braun's impressive three-run homer capped a five-run rally in the ninth inning Friday night that gave Milwaukee an 8-6 win. Braun is impressed with Yelich. "He has a picture-perfect swing," Braun said. "It's what you'd try to teach kids. It doesn't get much better than that." Brewers left-hander Brent Suter (1-0) went five innings, allowing three runs and three hits. He combined with Josh Hader and Jacob Barnes on a six-hitter. Advertisement Freddy Galvis hit a two-run homer for San Diego in the second, and Eric Hosmer doubled home a run in the third. Perdomo allowed five runs and seven hits in four innings. "It's two years on the roster. It's time for him to go, it's time for him to step up and attack," Green said of Perdomo. "The challenge is there out in front of him." COMING BACK Erlin was a candidate for the rotation coming out of spring straining. "Coming back from Tommy John, being out for a long time, I like where he is," Green said. "He gave us an opportunity to get back in that game. We just didn't put much on the board after that third inning." TRAINER'S ROOM Padres: OF Wil Myers will take two days off because of a sore back. UP NEXT Brewers: Following an off day, RHP Zach Davies is scheduled to start the home opener Monday against RHP Miles Mikolas and the St. Louis Cardinals. Padres: RHP Bryan Mitchell is scheduled to make his Padres debut Monday night in the opener of a home series against Colorado, which will counter with RHP Chad Bettis. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:27 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  To sum things up, Villanova was feelin' it Saturday night. Like every night that ends in "Y'' for the Wildcats. Like all these games where they walk away with a "W'' and leave their opponents shaking their heads. Villanova moved within a win of another title, sinking a Final Four-record 18 3-pointers, while cementing itself as the most-prolific 3-point-shooting team in college history in a 95-79 runaway over Kansas. "Well, that was just one of those nights," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. Normally the third or fourth option on a team full of shooters, junior wingman Eric Paschall led the barrage, going 4 for 5 from 3, 10 for 11 overall, and finishing with a career-high 24 points. But the hoop was as wide as the Alamodome for pretty much everyone in a Wildcats jersey. Seven 'Nova players made 3s. Villanova tied the Final Four record for 3s in game with 3:45 left in the first half. The Wildcats shot 45 percent from 3 — 5 points higher than their season average, which ranked 15th in the nation this season. Advertisement Next up is Michigan, which will try to guard the perimeter Monday night when Villanova (35-5) goes for its second title in three seasons. Advertisement Good luck with that. Nobody has had much success this season, and in what turned out to be an unexpectedly lopsided matchup between top seeds, Kansas (31-8) certainly didn't Saturday night. AP Player of the Year Jalen Brunson made three 3s and finished with 18 points. Omari Spellman made three, as well, in a 15-point, 13-rebound monster game. "As good a team as I've played against that I can remember," Kansas coach Bill Self said. "We got spread out on defense. The game plan went to crap. You get caught in between on defense, and it's the worst thing you can do." About a minute into the second half, Paschall drained a 3 for Villanova's 14th of the game, breaking a Final Four record first set by UNLV in 1987. Much earlier, at about the 13-minute mark of the first half, Collin Gillespie spotted up and swished for 'Nova's sixth 3 of the game, which gave it the NCAA record for 3s in a season, with 442. VMI set that record in 2007. Very few remember that team, though, because even though the importance of the long shot has grown as the decades have passed, it's never been thought of as a guaranteed way to win consistently. Wright's team is laying waste to that theory and, at times, making other teams look bad while doing it. On Saturday, the typical Villanova possession involved working the ball down low on the wing, then a skip pass across the bottom of the paint, followed by one, two or three passes around the arc until somebody got open. It usually worked. Against both the Jayhawks' man defense and their zone. Most of 'Nova's 18 makes barely skimmed the net.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We knew they'd have to miss some pretty decent looks, but they got anything they wanted early, and they knocked everything down," Self said. Advertisement Villanova attempted 40 shots from 3, and only 25 from 2. Gillespie's record-setter gave Villanova a 22-4 lead, and at that point, Kansas had as many turnovers as points and had taken as many timeouts as it had field goals. Self did what he could, urging his 7-foot center, Udoka Azubuike, out of the paint and into the faces of this group of hybrid forward-guards, all of whom can shoot. The big fella couldn't get there. The Jayhawks, back in the dome where they cut down the nets 10 years ago after their last title, made mini runs. But the deficit never got below double digits. Devonte Graham, the senior guard who has been the glue in this Final Four season, led Kansas with 23 points. Malik Newman, who pushed his game into overdrive during the postseason, had 21. They combined to make 6 of 13 3-pointers themselves, but didn't get much help. Much of that was credit to the Villanova defense. Wright and co. spent more time in the postgame talking about defense and rebounding than the shooting clinic they put on. "If we didn't get stops, it was getting back to being a five- or six-point game," Wright said. But they did. And it didn't. About the only drama in the second half was whether the Wildcats would top Loyola Marymount's NCAA Tournament record of 21 3-pointers in a game (against Michigan in 1990). Didn't happen, mainly because they didn't need it too. But there's still Monday. "They'll be hard for anyone to deal with," Self said, "if they shoot the ball like that." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JESSE GREENMARCH 31, 2018
 There’s a perfect foreboding moment near the beginning of “The Lucky Ones” that gets at what I take to be the heart of the matter. Abigail Bengson, who narrates much of the quasi-autobiographical electro-folk singspiel, is painting the scene of her childhood in a “hippy tolerant” extended family. Her mother and father and aunt all teach at the super-crunchy Blue Mountain School in a “part of Vermont that happens to be in Maine”; their five children, from teenagers to young adults, make a seemingly undifferentiated puppy pile, frolicking happily. It is morning. Eggs and bacon are frying. The new school year is opening wide. Together these good people sing a lovely chorale, their individual voices in harmony with the whole. “But of course what it really sounds like is this,” Abigail says, interrupting. When we then hear it unmusicalized, as clashing lines of dialogue, it’s just awful chaos. Advertisement The full impact of that chaos will not emerge until later in the show, an Ars Nova production that opened on Saturday night at the Connelly Theater in the East Village. But the sweet glaze of memory, like the blandishment of false philosophy, still offers glints of something darker beneath the surface. Soon, idealism will go astray, adolescence will be left to its own devices, children will be betrayed by insufficient parenting and the survivors will be made to pick through the rubble. Advertisement Ms. Bengson, a singer with enormous range both in pitch and timbre, is one of those survivors. Along with her husband, Shaun Bengson, she has written the music and lyrics for “The Lucky Ones,” and, with Sarah Gancher, its book. Their approach to the function of music in a musical is eclectic: It is sometimes simply presentational, as in a concert, sometimes narrative, sometimes (as with the use of hymns and folk songs) diegetic and sometimes a blend of all three. This works quite well in the first part of the show, before the intermission, as I imagine it did in an earlier autobiographical Bengsons work, “Hundred Days,” about the first months of the couple’s marriage. “The Lucky Ones,” directed by Anne Kauffman, has a bigger cast and a hard-working ensemble (choreographed by Sonya Tayeh) to characterize the family and school community in small bites of song and recitative that get passed around like hors d’oeuvres. Myra Lucretia Taylor as Ms. Bengson’s mother, Ashley Pérez Flanagan as her sister Emily and Maryann Plunkett as her aunt do especially fine work making these archetypes specific. But the story gradually focuses on Ms. Bengson’s cousin Kai (Damon Daunno) and Emma (Adina Verson), the new girl at school. (The names of almost all the characters, as well as some details of the plot and setting, have been altered.) Kai is the cool, questing stoner everyone crushes on; Emma is the wounded bird he finally falls for. Naturally, his family being so accepting and oblivious, they embrace the relationship even as it becomes clear that Kai is losing his grip. Both Mr. Daunno and Ms. Verson are excellent, he pulsating with over-the-top teenage excitement, she shyly blinking in the glow of her good fortune. But as the first part of the show drags into the second, and nearly comes to a standstill in the third, the material falls out from under them.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Bengsons’ songwriting, though feelingful, does not yet seem complex enough structurally to handle the size and depth of the action it must portray. The music, played by Abigail and Shaun — along with their band mates Dani Markham on drums and Pearl Rhein on keyboards, fiddle and accordion — has a pleasantly droning quality that forestalls harmonic development. The ruminative, repetitive lyrics similarly stunt the drama. And then, too, the tale and its manner of telling take strange turns after the intermission, including a leap into the Bengsons’ own romance and a long section created from what we are told are verbatim transcripts of interviews with the family years after the events described. That these detours give the cast a chance to polish its naturalism does not make them useful in creating the feeling of a unified work. It’s a musical, after all. Ms. Kauffman’s astute staging in the unusual Connelly space — it was once an orphans’ choir hall — does what it can to jury-rig a feeling of depth. She has an uncanny way of layering action, in this case not only within the proscenium but also in the former choir loft behind the audience. And Ms. Tayeh’s gestural dance language also supports the idea that something big and emotional is happening here. But the storytelling is as yet too impulsive, and at times too self-indulgent, to be corralled in those ways. Perhaps with strong parenting “The Lucky Ones” will one day emerge more successfully, as “Hundred Days” did after a long development period. For now, like many an adolescent, it remains a gawky, powerful work in progress. Connelly Theater 220 E. Fourth St. E. Village 800-838-3006 connellytheater.org Category Off Broadway, Musical Runtime 2 hrs. and 20 mins. Credits Book by The Bengsons and Sarah Gancher; Music and lyrics by The Bengsons; Choreographed by Sonya Tayeh; Directed by Anne Kauffman Cast Abigail Bengson, Shaun Bengson, Damon Daunno, Mia DeWeese, Tilly Evans-Krueger, Lenin Fernandez, Ashley Pérez Flanagan, Lindsey Hailes, Dani Markham, Zach McNally, Jennifer Morris, Tom Nelis, Maryann Plunkett, Pearl Rhein, Ida Saki, Myra Lucretia Taylor, Adina Verson and Amelia Workman Preview March 19, 2018 Opened March 31, 2018 Closing Date  April 21, 2018 
                This information was last updated: April 4, 2018  Follow Jesse Green on Twitter: @JesseKGreen. A version of this review appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page C2 of the New York edition with the headline: The Chaos Beneath the Lovely Chorale.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. But our primary goal is that this feature adds value to your reading experience. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 7:41 P.M. E.D.T.
 Augusta, Georgia —  Tiger Woods has produced a collection of magical feats at the U.S. Masters but the 14-times major champion has set the stage for what could be one of golf's greatest moments as he takes his comeback to Augusta National Golf Club next week. After long battles with back issues and many false starts, the 42-year-old Woods returns to stately Augusta for the first time since 2015. Despite playing just a handful of tournaments, he arrives at the year's first major as one of the hot favorites to claim the coveted Green Jacket. "This is a little bit like a Lazarus resurrection here with respect to where he was," Steve Mona, World Golf Foundation CEO, told Reuters. Advertisement "Only last September he was talking about whether he would be able to comeback at all. Now he is the favorite at the Masters it is just astonishing. Advertisement "He is certainly in form. I don't think anyone would be terribly surprised if he were in the hunt. "I would not count him out just based on what we have seen from him the last three events it is not outside the realm of possibility that he would do and what a tremendous story that would be." A year ago Woods appeared to be closer to a sad end rather than a new beginning to his storied career. He had not won a major since the 2008 U.S. Open and was missing the Masters for a second consecutive year. The back that had caused him so much pain was getting no better despite numerous surgeries and treatments, as the former-world number one dropped out of the top 1,000 of the world rankings. Even the ever-positive Woods suddenly seemed resigned to a dour fate. Yet after undergoing spinal fusion surgery last April the dark clouds hanging over Woods slowly began to lift. Shaking off years of competitive rust, Woods returned with an encouraging tie for ninth at the Hero World Challenge followed by a tie for 23rd at the Farmers Insurance Open and a missed cut at the Genesis Open.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then suddenly Woods grabbed the spotlight as only he can, announcing his return to form with three impressive results -- a 12th at the Honda Classic, a tie for second at the Valspar Championship and a tie for fifth at the Arnold Palmer Invitational. "If you would have asked me at the beginning of the year that I would have had a chance to win two golf tournaments, I would have taken that in a heart beat," said Woods after his final round at the Arnold Palmer, his final tune-up for the Masters. Advertisement "If I can play with no pain and I can feel like I can make golf swings I'll figure it out." Those results have generated an almost unprecedented buzz around this year's Masters as Tiger-mania once again washes over the golf world. With Woods back in the hunt television ratings have soared along with expectations and like the fans, his fellow golfers have taken notice. "It's obviously been a big impact," said last year's champion Sergio Garcia. "We all know what kind of player he is and what kind of player he can be when he's healthy," added the Spaniard. Adding to Woods' upbeat mood is a return to one of his favorite venues, Augusta National, a course that officials once attempted to "Tiger-proof" by tweaking the layout. While he won the last of his four Green Jackets 13 years ago, the track has always suited him. He has posted seven top-five finishes along with his victories. "I'm sure he's excited to come back to Augusta and it's a place where he's done well," said Garcia. "I would expect him to do fairly well, but I don't know how well, you know, because it's also been a while since he's been there and he will probably be a little bit nervous, too, which is normal. "He's just got to deal with all those feelings again." (Editing by Toby Davis) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 10:42 P.M. E.D.T.
 PALM BEACH, Fla. —  President Donald Trump on Sunday declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they're coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants. "NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!" He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump's insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S. "Mexico has got to help us at the border," Trump, holding his wife's hand, told reporters before the couple attended Easter services at an Episcopal church near his Palm Beach home. "If they're not going to help us at the border, it's a very sad thing between our two countries." Advertisement "A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA," he added. Former President Barack Obama created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program to provide temporary protection and work permits to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are living in the U.S. illegally after being brought here as children. Trump ended the program last year, but gave Congress six months to pass legislation enshrining it. A deal has so far proved elusive and Trump has blamed Democrats. Advertisement It was not immediately clear what Trump was referring to when he said people are coming to take advantage of the program. The Department of Homeland Security is not issuing new permits, though existing ones can be renewed. The Obama administration allowed signups during a set period of time, and the program is closed to new entrants. Proposed DACA deals crafted by lawmakers and rejected by Trump also were not open to new participants. Trump did not explain what he meant when questioned by reporters as he entered the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea with the first lady and his daughter Tiffany. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for clarification. Trump, when addressing reporters briefly before entering the church, again blamed Democrats for failing to protect the "Dreamers." "They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it. They had a great, great chance, but we'll have to take a look because Mexico has got to help us at the border. They flow right through Mexico. They send them into the United States. It can't happen that way anymore." Trump promised during the 2016 presidential campaign to build a Southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated him by not moving as quickly as he wants to provide money for construction.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The president also complained on Twitter that border patrol agents can't do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge. Advertisement Trump tweeted that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He did not offer details to back his comment. The president's tweets came after Fox News' "Fox & Friends" reported early Sunday on what it said is a group of 1,200 immigrants, mostly from Honduras, headed to the U.S. The segment was a follow-up to a report by Buzzfeed News on hundreds of Central Americans making their way through Mexico in hopes that American authorities will grant them asylum or be absent when they attempt to cross the border. The Fox headline was "Caravan of illegal immigrants headed to U.S." The president is known to watch the cable TV program in the morning. Brandon Judd, leader of the union representing border patrol agents, predicted on "Fox & Friends" that those in the caravan would create havoc and chaos in the U.S. as they wait for what he described as immigration reform. Judd also said Congress needs to pass tougher laws, an idea Trump appeared to echo, and create more bed space for immigration authorities to house people. Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Republican, chided Trump over the tone of the tweets. "A true leader preserves & offers hope, doesn't take hope from innocent children who call America home. Remember, today is Easter Sunday," tweeted Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Trump critic who challenged him for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination. Arizona Republican Sen. Jeff Flake, another Trump foe, urged Congress to take up the fight for Dreamers. "There are plenty of lawmakers on both sides of the aisle who stand ready to work with the administration on legislation to protect DACA kids who call America home," he tweeted. "Let's do it." Sunday's church visit was Trump's first public appearance with his wife since CBS' "60 Minutes" aired an interview the previous Sunday with Stormy Daniels, the adult-film star who says she had sex with Trump in 2006, early in his marriage and a few months after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son. The White House says Trump denies the affair. Mrs. Trump spent most of the past week in Palm Beach with her son. The Trumps returned to Washington later Sunday. ___ Associated Press writer Kevin Freking in Washington contributed to this report. Advertisement ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 12:15 A.M. E.D.T.
 SEOUL, South Korea —  North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un clapped his hands and said he was "deeply moved" as he, along with his wife and hundreds of other citizens, watched a rare performance by South Korean pop stars visiting Pyongyang. The concert highlights the thawing ties between the rivals after years of friction over the North's nuclear program. During Sunday's performance at the packed 1,500-seat East Pyongyang Grand Theater, North Korean concertgoers — most of the men in dark suits but some women in colorful traditional "hanbok" dresses — waved their hands from their seats when the South Korean stars joined together to sing a popular Korean song, "Our wish is unification." After the two-hour performance ended, the North Koreans gave a thundering standing ovation. A South Korean artistic group, including some pop legends and the popular girl band Red Velvet, flew to Pyongyang over the weekend for two performances in the North Korean capital, one on Sunday and the other on Tuesday. How North Koreans would react to Red Velvet was a focus of keen media attention in South Korea. Kim, wearing a dark Mao-style suit, made a surprise visit to the performance with his wife Ri Sol Ju, sister Kim Yo Jong and other senior North Korean officials, including nominal head of state Kim Yong Nam. Kim Jong Un applauded during the event and shook hands with the South Korean performers. He also took a group photo with them after their performance, according to North Korea's state news agency and South Korean media pool reports from Pyongyang. Advertisement Kim "said that he was deeply moved to see our people sincerely acclaiming the performance, deepening the understanding of the popular art of the South side," the North's Korean Central News Agency said. Advertisement Short South Korean media pool footage showed Kim clapping from the second-floor VIP stand as South Korean Culture Minister Do Jong-hwan bowed and greeted North Korean spectators looking on from the first floor. "We should hold culture and art performances frequently," Kim told South Korean performers. Mentioning the performance's title, "Spring comes," Kim also asked the performers to tell South Korean President Moon Jae-in that the two Koreas should hold a similar event in Seoul in the autumn, according to South Korean media pool reports. Kim also talked about Red Velvet. "There had been interest in whether I would come and see Red Velvet. I had initially planned to attend a performance the day after tomorrow but I came here today after adjusting my schedule," Kim was quoted as saying. "I thank you for this kind of gift to Pyongyang's citizens." It was the first time for a North Korean leader to attend such a South Korean performance in the North. During a past period of detente, South Korea occasionally sent pop singers to North Korea, but that stopped in 2005.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The 26-second South Korean video clip showed a quiet audience when members of Red Velvet, wearing clothes less revealing than their normal stage costumes, danced and sang their popular hit song "Red Flavor." Full video of their and other South Korean singers' performances wasn't immediately available. But Red Velvet said in a post-concert interview that the North Koreans gave them a big hand. Band member Seulgi said she cried when North and South Koreans sang together the song, "Our Wish is Unification." Another member Yeri said she was "very" nervous when she exchanged handshakes with Kim Jong Un, but she said it was still "really, really an honor" to do so.        The South Korean group includes prominent singers such as Cho Yong-pil, Lee Sunhee and Cho Jin Hee, who all previously performed in Pyongyang. The ongoing cooperation steps between the rivals began after North Korea took part in February's Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. During the games, a North Korean art troupe performed in South Korea, and Moon and his wife watched it with visiting senior North Korean officials including Kim Yo Jong, who became the first member of the North's ruling Kim family to visit the South since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War. Advertisement Some experts suspect Kim Jong Un may be attempting to use his outreach to Seoul and Washington as a way to weaken international sanctions and buy time to further advance his nuclear bomb program. Kim is to meet Moon at a border village on April 27 and President Donald Trump in May in separate summit talks. On Tuesday, the South Korean K-pop stars plan to hold a joint performance with North Koreans. Meanwhile, a South Korean taekwondo demonstration team also held a performance in Pyongyang on Sunday. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:03 A.M. E.D.T.
 Today in History Today is Easter Sunday, April 1, the 91st day of 2018. There are 274 days left in the year. This is April Fool's Day. Today's Highlight in History: On April 1, 1918, Britain's Royal Air Force came into being toward the end of World War I as the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service were merged into a single, independent entity. On this date: In 1789, the U.S. House of Representatives held its first full meeting in New York; Frederick Muhlenberg of Pennsylvania was elected the first House speaker. In 1865, during the Civil War, Union forces routed Confederate soldiers in the Battle of Five Forks in Virginia. Advertisement In 1933, Nazi Germany staged a daylong national boycott of Jewish-owned businesses. In 1945, American forces launched the amphibious invasion of Okinawa during World War II. (U.S. forces succeeded in capturing the Japanese island on June 22.) Advertisement In 1954, the United States Air Force Academy was established by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. In 1962, the Katherine Anne Porter novel "Ship of Fools," an allegory about the rise of Nazism in Germany, was published by Little, Brown & Co. In 1972, the first Major League Baseball players' strike began; it lasted 12 days. In 1983, tens of thousands of anti-nuclear demonstrators linked arms in a 14-mile human chain spanning three defense installations in rural England, including the Greenham Common U.S. Air Base. In 1984, recording star Marvin Gaye was shot to death by his father, Marvin Gay (cq), Sr. in Los Angeles, the day before his 45th birthday. (The elder Gay pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter, and received probation.) In 1988, the scientific bestseller "A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to Black Holes" by British physicist Stephen Hawking was first published in the United Kingdom and the United States by Bantam Books.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In 1992, the National Hockey League Players' Association went on its first-ever strike, which lasted 10 days. In 2003, American troops entered a hospital in Nasiriyah (nah-sih-REE'-uh), Iraq, and rescued Army Pfc. Jessica Lynch, who had been held prisoner since her unit was ambushed on March 23. Ten years ago: The Pentagon made public a legal memo dated March 14, 2003 that approved the use of harsh interrogation techniques against terror suspects, saying that President George W. Bush's wartime authority trumped any international ban on torture. (The memo was rescinded in December 2003.) Top executives of the country's five biggest oil companies told a skeptical Congress they knew record fuel prices were hurting people, but argued it wasn't their fault and that their huge profits were in line with other industries. Five years ago: Prosecutors announced they would seek the death penalty for James Holmes should he be convicted in the July 2012 Colorado movie theater attack that killed 12 people. (Holmes, found guilty of murder, ended up being sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.) A cast member of the MTV reality show "BUCKWILD," Shain Gandee, 21, was found dead in a sport utility vehicle in a West Virginia ditch along with his uncle and a friend; the cause was accidental carbon monoxide poisoning. Advertisement One year ago: An avalanche of water from three overflowing rivers swept through a small city in Colombia, leaving more than 300 dead. Bob Dylan finally received his Nobel Literature diploma and medal during a small gathering in Stockholm, where he was performing a concert. Acclaimed Russian poet Yevgeny A. Yevtushenko died at a Tulsa, Oklahoma, hospital. Japan's Yuzuru Hanyu produced a remarkable comeback to win the men's world figure skating title in Helsinki. Two-time NBA scoring champion Tracy McGrady, Kansas coach Bill Self, former Chicago Bulls executive Jerry Krause and former UConn star Rebecca Lobo were among 11 people named to the Basketball Hall of Fame. Today's Birthdays: Actress Jane Powell is 89. Actor Don Hastings is 84. Baseball Hall of Famer Phil Niekro is 79. Actress Ali MacGraw is 79. Rhythm-and-blues singer Rudolph Isley is 79. Reggae singer Jimmy Cliff is 70. Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito is 68. Rock musician Billy Currie (Ultravox) is 68. Actress Annette O'Toole is 66. Movie director Barry Sonnenfeld is 65. Singer Susan Boyle is 57. Actor Jose Zuniga is 56. Country singer Woody Lee is 50. Actress Jessica Collins is 47. Rapper-actor Method Man is 47. Movie directors Albert and Allen Hughes are 46. Political commentator Rachel Maddow is 45. Tennis player Magdalena Maleeva is 43. Actor David Oyelowo (oh-YEHLOH'-oh) is 42. Actor JJ Field is 40. Singer Bijou Phillips is 38. Actor Sam Huntington is 36. Comedian-actor Taran Killam is 36. Actor Matt Lanter is 35. Actor Josh Zuckerman is 33. Country singer Hillary Scott (Lady Antebellum) is 32. Actor Asa Butterfield is 21. Thought for Today: "Life would be tragic if it weren't funny." — Stephen Hawking (1942-2018). We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Robert Leonard Mr. Leonard lives in Marion County, Iowa, and is the news director for the radio stations KNIA and KRLS. KNOXVILLE, Iowa — Donald Trump won over 60 percent of the 2016 vote in rural Iowa, where I live, and I haven’t heard much concern from Republicans over the president’s alleged infidelities with a porn actress, his ties to Russia or Jared Kushner’s real estate shenanigans. Or, for that matter, much concern about the administration scandals about wife beaters, Saudi princes, Ben Carson’s table or Scott Pruitt’s soundproof room. Many people don’t even know these scandals exist — they generally don’t lead in Sean Hannity’s or Tucker Carlson’s world. Sure, there is a little rumbling about the increased deficit, but not much. Besides, it’s the fault of Congress, in particular the Democrats. But people here — Republicans and Democrats alike — are paying great attention to what President Trump is doing economically, especially since he started in on tariffs. We have a strong manufacturing base in our county; when tariffs on aluminum and steel were announced, local manufacturing leaders tried to be diplomatic, praising the Trump tax cuts but saying the steel and aluminum tariffs would hurt their businesses by driving costs up. One smaller manufacturer — a Trump voter — told me that his costs to produce his product nearly doubled overnight, and that his business has already been hurt by the tariffs. Prices didn’t rise only after the tariffs were announced; they started rising when Mr. Trump floated the idea. But it’s the farm economy that rural Iowans are paying particular attention to. When the president first proposed a 20 percent import tax on Mexico to pay for his wall, Iowans objected: Mexico is our second-largest export partner after Canada. Mr. Trump has waffled on the renewable fuel standard before — ethanol is big around here — and Iowa’s entire congressional delegation and the governor’s office pressured him to renew it. We know he will waffle again, and potentially end it. Most recently, when Mr. Trump imposed $60 billion in tariffs and sanctions against China, the Iowa Soybean Association said his action “poses an immediate and grave threat to their industry and Iowa agriculture.” Senator Joni Ernst and Iowa’s agriculture secretary, Mike Naig, both say the tariffs will hurt Iowans, and Mr. Naig says we need to expand markets, not shrink them. Senator Chuck Grassley said something similar, on Fox News: “Tariffs do not put America first — low barriers and expanded access do.” China has already responded with its own tariff on pork, which will have a dire impact on Iowa. Iowa is the nation’s largest pork producer, producing three times as much pork as the next-highest state. A couple of banker friends who work with farmers every day told me last week that with commodity prices down and the tariffs imposed, approximately 10 percent of our farmers probably won’t make it this year, and 10 percent more will likely fail next year. They also shared the news that in Iowa, larger agribusinesses are buying up smaller farms that are in financial trouble, and that people are starting to make comparisons to the farm crisis of the 1980s, when approximately 10,000 Iowa farmers lost their farms. Even Representative Steve King, the avid Trump supporter and Iowan every liberal loves to hate, is worried about a new farm crisis. Dairy farmers are particularly hard hit, suffering through four years of declining prices. It’s gotten so bad, dairy farming organizations are giving out suicide hotline numbers, as farmers are committing suicide in the hope that their insurance will save the family farm. I’m focusing on the area I know, rural Iowa, but if the president stays on course with the tariffs, the impacts will hit many rural areas all over America, what I call Trumplandia. “It gives Democrats a generational opportunity to do the political work with farmers they haven’t done since the 1980s farm crisis,” said Matt Russell, a rural sociologist and farmer in Iowa. “Democrats do farm policy really well but are terrible at farm politics. Republicans do farm politics really well but have a history of doing terrible farm policy.” Harvest will be coming in when members of Congress, in recess, return to Iowa to campaign. They will be getting earfuls from rural constituents about the economic impacts of Mr. Trump’s tariffs. The president’s position is actually quite precarious. He’s already at a historic low approval rating. With the multiple scandals, rampant corruption and the Mueller investigation, the only thing keeping him near 40 percent approval — and most important, approval among most Republicans — is a strong economy. That, and Fox cheerleading. But if he tanks the rural economy, he and his legacy are in deep trouble. Furthermore, if the rural economy turns sour, much of rural America will abandon Mr. Trump, and Fox may have no choice but to follow. Then it’s just a matter of time before they will turn with the hope that a Trump impeachment and a Pence presidency will save the economy, the conservative gains that have been made under Trump, and the Republican Party. They’ll believe that they have no choice, and it will be swift and ruthless. Robert Leonard is the news director for the radio stations KNIA and KRLS. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:00 P.M. E.D.T.
 SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Los Angeles-area voters go to the polls Tuesday in special elections to fill three open Assembly seats. Two spots are vacant because lawmakers resigned amid harassment claims, potentially making room for more female lawmakers, but candidates say issues related to sexual misconduct at the Capitol aren't top-of-mind for many voters. Assemblymen Raul Bocanegra and Matt Dababneh resigned amid sexual misconduct accusations, while Sebastian Ridley-Thomas quit citing health issues. Women could replace all three. At least one female contender in each race has a well-funded campaign. In interviews, female candidates said it's important to have women in the Legislature but pointed to their leadership credentials as their main qualifications. Advertisement If any candidate wins more than 50 percent of the vote Tuesday — an unlikely scenario with crowded fields in all three districts — they win outright. Otherwise the top-two finishers, regardless of party, will advance to a June runoff. Advertisement The runoff contests would coincide with the statewide primary June 5. Seven candidates are vying to replace Bocanegra, who resigned after multiple women said he kissed or groped them without consent. He said he was not guilty of any crimes against the women. Luz Rivas, a nonprofit founder and engineer, and Antonio Sanchez, a workforce development director, are the race's leading fundraisers. Former Assemblywoman Patty Lopez, who won the seat from Bocanegra in 2014 before he defeated her and secured the spot again in 2016, also is running. Three other Democrats — Bonnie Corwin, Yolanda Anguiano and Patrea Patrick — are also on the ballot. Just one Republican, Ricardo Benitez, is running in the heavily Democratic district. Some voters want the culture surrounding sexual harassment in Sacramento to change, Rivas said, but others are less aware of the allegations against Bocanegra and other lawmakers. "Some of them don't know the reason he resigned," she said. "I think people want their state legislator to focus on the issues that affect their day-to-day lives." Sanchez said the allegations against Bocanegra rarely come up in his conversations with voters, who seem primarily concerned with high housing costs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Democrats outnumber Republicans by a more than a 2-to-1 margin in the three districts. But the region where, demographically, a GOP candidate has the best chance of making the top two is Dababneh's old district, said Jaime Regalado, a political science professor emeritus at California State University, Los Angeles. Advertisement The only Republican running in that district is 18-year-old Justin Clark, a college student who works part-time in an ice cream shop. Clark said his campaign comprises mostly friends and family members who are volunteering their time. His best-funded Democratic rivals are Jesse Gabriel, a constitutional rights attorney, and Tricia Robbins Kasson, a Los Angeles City Council aide. Democrats Ankur Patel, Daniel Brin, Jeff Bornstein and Ray Bishop are also in the race. Dennis Zine, a no-party-preference candidate, will appear on the ballot but has announced he isn't campaigning. The Florida school shooting shifted many voters' attention to gun safety, said Larry Levine, who works on Robbins Kasson's campaign. But he said many are still concerned about the Dababneh allegations. Dababneh resigned after a lobbyist said he pushed her into a bathroom during a Las Vegas social event and masturbated in front of her. He has denied the accusations. "Some people are very angry that they lack representation because of the way that seat was vacated," Robbins Kasson said. A pervasive culture of sexual harassment at the Capitol persisted under Democrats' watch, and the lawmakers who resigned amid allegations are Democrats. That will have a negative effect on Democrats in the elections, Regalado said, but probably not enough to swing the outcome in favor of Republicans because the districts are so strongly Democratic. Rivas and Robbins Kasson said they believe electing more women to the Legislature will combat the pervasive sexual harassment in the capital. First-time candidate Tepring Piquado says the issue hasn't been raised in any candidate forums. Piquado, a neuroscientist, is running to replace Ridley-Thomas. Advertisement She and fellow female candidate Sydney Kamlager, a Los Angeles Community College District trustee, are the leading fundraisers in the race. Kamlager has secured many big endorsements, including from the California Democratic Party. Republican Glen Ratcliff and Democrat Grayson Pangilinan are also running for the seat. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:48 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN ANTONIO —  Staring down a 10-point, second-half deficit against an underdog that seemed nothing short of blessed during the madness of March, Moe Wagner and Michigan clamped down on Loyola-Chicago and ended one of the most memorable NCAA Tournament runs ever. Wagner scored 24 points, Charles Matthews added 17 and the Wolverines rallied to beat the Ramblers 69-57 Saturday night in the Final Four. The third-seeded Wolverines (33-7) will take a 14-game winning streak, the longest in the nation, into their first national championship game appearance since 2013, and second under coach Jon Beilein. "We're not done yet," Michigan senior Muhammad-Ali Abdur-Rahkman said. Michigan became the first team to reach the national title game without beating a top-five seed along the way. That changes Monday night at the Alamodome. No. 1 seed Villanova stands in the way of the Wolverines' first NCAA title since 1989. Advertisement Lovable Loyola (32-6), with superfan Sister Jean courtside and their fans behind the bench standing for pretty much the entire game, could not conjure another upset. The Ramblers were the fourth 11th-seeded team to make it this far and like the previous three, the semifinals were the end of the road. Advertisement Coach Porter Moser said he was proud of players Ben Richardson, Aundre Jackson and Donte Ingram for holding it together during a postgame news conference, answering questions with red eyes and long faces. "But it was as tough a locker room as I've seen because they believed they belonged and they believed like they wanted to advance," Moser said. Loyola had no answers for the 6-foot-11 Wagner, and its offense, so smooth and efficient on the way to San Antonio, broke down in the second half and finished with 17 turnovers. Wagner, playing in front of his parents who made the trip from Germany, had 15 rebounds and was 10 for 16 from the field. Matthews, the Kentucky transfer and Chicago native, had a run-out dunk with 1:33 left that made it 63-53. And that was that. Wagner became the third player in the last 40 years with a 20 and 15 game in a Final Four game , joining Hakeem Olajuwon of Houston in 1983 (then known as Akeem) and Larry Bird of Indiana State in 1979. "Wow. If you put it like that, it's probably cool," Wagner said. "But to be honest, I kept looking possession by possession. We had trouble scoring the first half. We scored 22 points and that was kind of the only way we found our way to the basket, grab offensive rebounds and get second-shot opportunities. "And I honestly just tried to do my job." Or, as Michigan guard Jaaron Simmon, put it: "He was a beast tonight." Advertisement Wagner also went flying off the elevated court, chasing a loose ball, avoiding injury but taking out CBS commentator Bill Raftery's eye glasses. It was a full night. As the seconds ticked off, Wagner pumped his fist to the many Michigan fans who made the trek to San Antonio, while Loyola's Jackson, who got the Ramblers rolling with a late game-winning 3 in the first round against Miami, looked toward the roof and shook his head.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cameron Krutwig, Loyola's big man, scored 17 points and Clayton Custer had 13 of his 15 after halftime. But facing one of the best defensive teams in the country, the best defensive team Beilein has ever had in 11 seasons in Ann Arbor, the Ramblers scored just 16 points in the final 14 minutes. "Their length. They close the gap of opportunity really fast," Moser said. Custer scored seven straight points for Loyola at one point to put the Ramblers up 41-31 with 14:08 remaining. "I don't know if they had magic on their side," Beilein said. "They're good." Michigan refused to fade, even with point guard Zavier Simpson — whose solid play has been critical to the Wolverines' late-season surge — playing terribly. Simpson had no points and four turnovers. Simmons, Simpson's backup, made a 3 and Duncan Robinson hit another a few minutes later and the deficit was down to 45-42 with 10 minutes left. "Not dropping our heads, that was the main thing," Simmons said. "We haven't been down in a game for a long time. So not dropping our heads was one of the main adjustments we had to make." Wagner hit a 3 from right in front of the Michigan bench with 6:50 left to tie it, and moments later the Wolverines were back on top, 49-47, when Jordan Poole made two free throws. Loyola turned it over on three straight possessions and Wagner tipped in a miss by Poole, was fouled and converted the 3-point play to put Michigan up 54-47 with just under five minutes left. Advertisement The Ramblers' 14-game losing streak is over, along with an incredible feel-good story at a time that college basketball, engulfed in a corruption scandal, could truly use one.  Sister Jean Dolores-Schmidt and her favorite team , the Missouri Valley Conference champions, making their first NCAA appearance since 1985, will return to Chicago as heroes, regardless. "It's special to see kind of what stage we were able to get to," said Richardson, a senior who grew up in Kansas with Custer and then convinced his friend to transfer from Iowa State to Loyola. "Despite going out this way, were going to never forget this. I think a lot of people will remember this run for a long time." Michigan has more work to do. The Wolverines, unranked to start the season and sitting at 19-7 in early February, will now resume the underdog role they have played much of the season, trying to win their second NCAA championship. "This team's had no attention at all," Beilein said. "Until we went up to beat Michigan State we weren't nationally ranked. Now we're playing on Monday night." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By KATIE ROGERSAPRIL 1, 2018
 PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump, blaming Democrats and the Mexican government for an increasingly “dangerous” flow of illegal immigrants, unleashed a series of fiery tweets on Sunday in which he vowed “NO MORE DACA DEAL” and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement. Minutes after wishing the nation a happy Easter Sunday, Mr. Trump denounced “liberal” laws that he said were preventing Border Patrol agents from doing their jobs. He said that Republicans should use the “nuclear option” to sidestep Democratic opposition in the Senate and enact “tough laws NOW.” It was unclear whether the president’s tweets represented any change in his immigration policy, or were just the sort of venting he is known to do after reading a newspaper article or seeing a television program. The president, who spent much of his holiday weekend golfing with supporters and watching television, was apparently reacting to a “Fox and Friends” segment on immigration that had aired minutes before. Whatever his intention, Mr. Trump’s Twitter outburst captured the fickle tendencies that have driven his policy positions on immigration. On one hand, he has suggested at times that he is open to extending citizenship to millions of undocumented people. On the other hand, he has denounced those who have entered the country illegally as brutal criminals and raged about lax enforcement that he said had allowed immigrants to pour into the country. Advertisement In his tweets, Mr. Trump referred to “caravans” of immigrants heading north toward the United States-Mexico border — a subject that was addressed on the Fox program. A group of hundreds of Central Americans has been traveling through Mexico toward the United States, where some hope to seek asylum or sneak across the border. A reporter for BuzzFeed has been traveling with the group as it makes its way north. Advertisement As he walked into church in Palm Beach on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump did not respond to a question from reporters about whether his tweets meant that he would no longer support any deal for the young immigrants protected by the DACA program. But he said that “Mexico has got to help us at the border, and a lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA.” The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, gave protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. The program requires immigrants to have resided in the United States since 2007, meaning any crossing the border now would not be eligible. Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program, but courts have blocked his decision. He has said he is open to negotiating with Democrats on it, but has repeatedly backed away from potential deals that he argues do not include immigration changes that are tough enough. Outside the church on Sunday, the president said the Democrats “blew it” after having “had a great chance.” “But we’ll have to take a look,” he added. Several Democrats challenged the idea that they were at fault for a breakdown in negotiations. “‘NO MORE DACA DEAL’?!!” Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota wrote on Twitter. “You were never doing a DACA deal. Your actions gave you away: cancelling DACA with no plan, making racist comments about Black/Brown immigrants, ejecting several by bipartisan deals. You didn’t fool anybody.” Representative Dwight Evans, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said on Twitter that DACA recipients were “students, military service members, teachers, scientists, doctors, and lawyers — they are integral members of our community.” Advertisement Mr. Evans said the president’s comments were “simply unacceptable.” The president’s remarks also drew a rebuke from a high-profile member of his own party. Gov. John Kasich of Ohio wrote on Twitter: “A true leader preserves & offers hope, doesn’t take hope from innocent children who call America home.” Mr. Trump directed an equal measure of anger at Mexico, saying the country was “doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S.” He said Mexican leaders “must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “NEED WALL!” he added. It was far from the first time that Mr. Trump has threatened to scrap Nafta as he pushes to change American trade policies that he says have hurt the United States economy and cost the country large numbers of jobs. The United States, Mexico and Canada are locked in difficult negotiations over a revamping of the trade pact. The president’s tweets seemed at odds with some unifying steps taken last week by members of his administration: The homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, met with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss ways to work together on security and trade issues, according to a description of the conversation released by the Department of Homeland Security. But Mr. Trump may have been hearing a harder-line administration voice over the weekend. He was accompanied to his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago, by Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s tough stance on immigration. The president, in his tweets, criticized what he called “Catch & Release,” a practice in which detained undocumented immigrants are sometimes released as they wait for a hearing before an immigration judge. In some cases, they are released because the government has nowhere to house them. Critics say the practice — which, contrary to the president’s tweet, is not enshrined in law — gives the immigrants an opening to skip their hearing and settle undetected in the country. The Trump administration has declared an end to the practice, though it may take a while before significant changes are carried out. Mr. Trump’s tweets on Sunday echoed remarks on “Fox and Friends” by Brandon Judd, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, whom the president has praised in the past. “Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate, they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want,” Mr. Judd said on the program. “They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program that’ll allow us to hold them for a long time.” Advertisement Mr. Judd also said that the “catch and release” policy was helping to lure the caravan of Central Americans to the United States. A representative for a group called Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which organized the caravan, said that it would take four to six weeks before it reached the United States-Mexico border, and that the number of participants would be significantly smaller by then. Most people are likely to drop out of the caravan in Mexico, rather than journey all the way to the border, the representative said, because they know they would be turned back by American border officials. “Many of them know they won’t qualify for asylum. They are afraid of being detained,” said Roberto Corona, the group’s communications director, adding that most of them just wanted to reach Mexico, where they plan to speak with members of that country’s Congress. Migrants who cannot prove that they face persecution or that their lives are endangered in their home country are unlikely to be allowed to remain in the United States. The Trump administration has also sought to increase detentions to deter would-be migrants. Ron Nixon and Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting from Washington, and Miriam Jordan from Los Angeles. A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: As Refugee Caravan Heads North, Trump Rails Against DACA and Nafta.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 3:21 P.M. E.D.T.
 LOS ANGELES —  Steven Spielberg has found his way back to the top of the box office with the action-adventure "Ready Player One," while Tyler Perry has scored again with "Acrimony." Studio estimates on Sunday say Spielberg's virtual reality-focused film earned a solid $53.2 million in its first four days in theaters from 4,234 locations since opening Wednesday night, with $41.2 million of that coming from the three-day weekend. Not adjusted for inflation, it's Spielberg's best opening in a decade following "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull," which launched with $100.1 million in 2008. Aside from "The BFG," Spielberg has lately favored smaller historical dramas instead of the big-scale blockbusters of his heyday. Based on Ernest Cline's popular novel and chock-full of references to 1980s pop culture, including some nods to Spielberg's own films, "Ready Player One" is a return to the popcorn filmmaking that he became known for. With that includes a reportedly hefty $175 million price tag, which does not account for marketing costs. Advertisement Audiences gave the film an A- CinemaScore, and reviews have been warm, too (it's sitting at a 76 percent on Rotten Tomatoes). Those who turned out this weekend were mostly male (59 percent) and over the age of 25 (56 percent). Advertisement "It's great to be in the Steven Spielberg business," said Jeff Goldstein, Warner Bros.' president of domestic distribution. "We always believed that this movie itself would carry the day and that's really what happened. We've seen all around the globe that the word of mouth is really propelling it." Goldstein said while advance ticket sales were solid, the walk-up business was particularly robust on Friday and Saturday. Internationally, the film exceeded the studio's expectations with $128 million from 62 territories, including $61.7 million from China (the biggest-ever opening in the country for Warner Bros.). Globally it grossed $181.3 million. ComScore senior media analyst Paul Dergarabedian said the performance of "Ready Player One" should be judged in the context of the marketplace, which is down significantly (24.1 percent) from last March and has seen nearly every film since "Black Panther" open in the "middling to good range." "None of them have set the world on fire," Dergarabedian said. "We're living in a world where a $52.3 million gross for the first four days is a really good number." "Tyler Perry's Acrimony" took second place. Driven by an overwhelmingly female audience, the film starring Taraji P. Henson grossed $17.1 million over the 3-day weekend, followed by "Black Panther" in third place with $11.3 million. With $650.7 million in domestic grosses, "Black Panther" is poised to pass "Jurassic World's" $652 million to become the fourth highest grossing domestic release of all time. Advertisement A batch of faith-based films also competed for attention leading up to the Easter holiday, including "I Can Only Imagine," which scored again with $10.8 million to take fourth place. It outshined "Paul, Apostle of Christ," which earned $3.5 million in weekend two and the new opener, "God's Not Dead: A Light in Darkness," which stumbled with $2.6 million. Even Wes Anderson's "Isle of Dogs," playing in only 165 locations, beat "God's Not Dead 3" with $2.8 million. "Pacific Rim Uprising" rounded out the top five with $9.2 million, down 67 percent from last weekend's No. 1 opening.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The year is still down nearly 4 percent, too, but there are some superheroes on the horizon. "The cavalry is on the way in 'Avengers: Infinity War,'" Dergarabedian said. Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to comScore. Where available, the latest international numbers for Friday through Sunday are also included. Final domestic figures will be released Monday. 1."Ready Player One," $41.2 million ($128 million international). 2."Tyler Perry's Acrimony," $17.1 million. 3."Black Panther," $11.3 million ($7.7 million international). 4."I Can Only Imagine," $10.8 million ($200,000 international). 5."Pacific Rim Uprising," $9.2 million ($31.4 million international). 6."Sherlock Gnomes," $7 million ($2.5 million international). 7."Love, Simon," $4.8 million ($1.6 million international). 8."Tomb Raider," $4.7 million ($12 million international). 9."A Wrinkle in Time," $4.7 million ($4.8 million international). 10."Paul, Apostle of Christ," $3.5 million. Advertisement ___ Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at international theaters (excluding the U.S. and Canada), according to comScore: 1. "Ready Player One," $128 million. 2. "Peter Rabbit," $32.1 million. 3. "Pacific Rim Uprising," $31.4 million. 4. "Baaghi 2," $15.2 million. 5. "Tomb Raider," $12 million. 6. "Gonjiam: Haunted Asylum," $8.5 million. 7. "Black Panther," $7.7 million. 8. "Nothing to Lose (Part 1)," $7.1 million. 9. "Red Sparrow," and "Blockers," $5 million. 10. "A Wrinkle in Time," $4.8 million. ___ Universal and Focus are owned by NBC Universal, a unit of Comcast Corp.; Sony, Columbia, Sony Screen Gems and Sony Pictures Classics are units of Sony Corp.; Paramount is owned by Viacom Inc.; Disney, Pixar and Marvel are owned by The Walt Disney Co.; Miramax is owned by Filmyard Holdings LLC; 20th Century Fox and Fox Searchlight are owned by 21st Century Fox; Warner Bros. and New Line are units of Time Warner Inc.; MGM is owned by a group of former creditors including Highland Capital, Anchorage Advisors and Carl Icahn; Lionsgate is owned by Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.; IFC is owned by AMC Networks Inc.; Rogue is owned by Relativity Media LLC. ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ZACHARY WOOLFEAPRIL 1, 2018
 Plácido Domingo is, depending on the source you consult, on one or the other side of 80. Let that sink in. And now let this: On Thursday he sang, for the first time, the father of the title character in Verdi’s “Luisa Miller” at the Metropolitan Opera. He says that Miller is the 149th new role of his career. 
            Tonight God willing I’ll be making my 149th career role debut on the stage of @MetOpera as Miller in Giuseppe Verdi’s masterpiece “Luisa Miller “ with amazing colleagues @sonyayoncheva Piotr Beczala, Olesya Petrova, Alexander Vinogradov, Dmitry Belosselskiy. pic.twitter.com/wlGYsyNcKs  How did we get to this astonishing spectacle? Around the year 2000, it was assumed that Mr. Domingo, one of the great tenors of the 20th century, would do what generations of opera singers had done before him. Seemingly at the tail end of a brilliant 40-year career, he would recede with dignity. We thought that Mr. Domingo, then a bit over 60, would do concerts. He’d conduct. He’d run opera companies and found young singer competitions. He’d keep busy but he’d gradually retire. Advertisement Was it ego? A philanthropic impulse toward the struggling opera companies he knew he could help at the box office? Indomitable curiosity? A feeling he still had something to say on stage? Advertisement Whatever the combination of all the above, Mr. Domingo didn’t stop. Having naturally lost flexibility in his high notes, and no longer able to convincingly portray boyish lovers, he moved into the baritone repertory, specifically the brooding patriarchs of Verdi: Simon Boccanegra, Nabucco, Rigoletto, Germont in “La Traviata.” And now, at the Met through April 21, Miller in the underrated “Luisa Miller,” a relative rarity but passionate and full of arresting experiments in structure and sonority, a gateway to Verdi’s breakthrough works of the early 1850s (“Rigoletto,” “Il Trovatore,” “Traviata”). The Met hasn’t put on “Luisa” in over a decade — and not this excitingly since well before that. What Mr. Domingo is doing is not atypical. It’s unprecedented in opera history. For him to be even credibly appearing in leading parts on the world’s major stages, and adding new ones each year, is as if Roger Federer, today already an ancient champion at 36, were still winning Wimbledon a decade from now. Mr. Domingo’s baritonal period hasn’t been conflict-free; he’s been dogged by polite suggestions and outright calls to give it all up. But he has turned out not to be experimenting or dabbling. It’s been over 10 years. And there remain things to be skeptical about. Large swaths of his voice are still uncannily preserved, but the low part crucial to a baritone’s range tends to grow vague for him. And in fast music, that part in particular turns blustery and cloudy, making Mr. Domingo sound awkward in, for example, Miller’s big cabaletta, “Ah! fu giusto,” which should be an early showstopper. At the start of the finale to the first act, Miller — a sturdy retired soldier whose country-girl daughter tragically seeks to marry above her station — indignantly says that an innocent like Luisa shouldn’t have to bow before a powerful man, but only before God. The steadiness and magnetism of this line are key to establishing the opera’s stakes — so those stakes suffer a bit when Miller delivers it, as Mr. Domingo did, without evenness or glamour. But on Thursday, he eventually warmed and settled, his voice taking on increased presence if not ideally hale glow. “Luisa Miller” plays on one of Verdi’s favorite themes: the conflict between romantic and filial love — or, depending on how you look at it, between romantic love and filial obsession. Advertisement Mr. Domingo brings out a father’s concern and pain more than his obsession. He is a straightforward singer, as he always has been, with straightforward feelings. His relationship with Luisa doesn’t have much complexity, but it has earnestness and poignancy. His voice sounds healthy; he moves with fluency. If he’ll never be a true Verdi baritone, and always an aging tenor in baritone’s clothing, it is still a display not to be missed: someone of Mr. Domingo’s stage of life taking on a new Verdi role at a great opera house and doing himself no small degree of honor with it. You almost don’t believe your eyes or ears. That this implausible achievement isn’t this revival’s main attraction speaks to the quality of the performance. Sonya Yoncheva, also new to her role, seems more comfortable as Luisa than she did as Tosca at the Met this winter. The clear, smoothly slicing quality of her soprano makes special impact in this opera, in which Luisa stands out in a field of dark male voices. Ms. Yoncheva has imagined the character as less innocent than spunky and sensual. When her lover, Rodolfo, enters to kill her in the final act — she’s trapped in a lie of betrayal that she thinks will save her father — she seems unsurprised, as if she’d expected him to come: There is always a sense of fatalism, of death calmly awaited, in Ms. Yoncheva’s portrayals. Piotr Beczala, in yet another role debut, gave the rash Rodolfo his trademark poise and elegance. There’s little traditional Italian-tenor wildness in Mr. Beczala (for that, check out Vittorio Grigolo, at the Met in “Lucia di Lammermoor”) but he brings ample heat as the plot thickens. The bass Alexander Vingradov made a fine Met debut as Count Walter, Rodolfo’s father, sonorously and suavely balancing this intriguing character’s combination of sympathy and violence. (Think Claudius in “Hamlet.”) In one of Verdi’s ingenious inventions, he combined beautifully in a rare bass-bass duet with Dmitry Belosselskiy, imposingly oily as the malevolent Wurm. The warm-toned mezzo-soprano Olesya Petrova (as Federica, the noblewoman who loves Rodolfo) meets her role’s most important requirement: She strides commandingly down the gigantic staircase of Santo Loquasto’s sturdily old-fashioned set. Rihab Chaieb sounded fresh and youthful as the village girl Laura. Leading a spirited performance, the conductor Bertrand de Billy was a replacement for James Levine, fired by the Met last month amid accusations of sexual misconduct. This revival was to have been a special reunion: Mr. Domingo and Mr. Levine’s first collaboration here was “Luisa Miller” in 1971. (Mr. Domingo, back then, sang Rodolfo.) As it happened, this tenor-improbably-turned-baritone was forced to return to the opera on his own. He did it in memorable style.  Luisa MillerThrough April 21 at the Metropolitan Opera; 212-362-6000, metopera.org. A version of this review appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Plácido Domingo, 80ish, Not Receding.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by A look at our latest featured couples.  By Rosalie R. Radomsky In 2013 when Sally Corbette Newman, who does acroyoga (yoga plus acrobatics) and circus arts on the side, heard her friend was about to host Romain Philippe Guimard, a bona fide French acrobat, through Couchsurfing.com, she persuaded her friend to let him stay with her instead. “You don’t get a ton of opportunities to host a professional circus performer,” said Ms. Newman, who had been dazzled by his circus troupe at the Spoleto Festival in Charleston. “It’s a contemporary circus, not big-top Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey stuff,” she said. “It’s a lot more muted, a lot more modern. It’s a magical spectacle.” She took a break from work that afternoon to screen him over coffee at Normandy Farm Artisan Bakery in downtown Charleston, and after they managed to connect and communicate, despite the fact she spoke little French and he little English, she handed over the keys. “It was very natural with Sally,” said Mr. Guimard, who took in local sights on his own by day, and spent evenings with her. Emily Louise Cashman and Harrell Raso Kirstein were married March 29 at the Manchester City Hall in Manchester N.H. Joanne Doukeris, a member of the city clerk’s office, officiated. On March 31, Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire and a friend of the couple, led an exchange of vows at the Bedford Village Inn, a hotel in Bedford, N.H. The bride, 32, works in Washington as the senior manager of government affairs at Thorn, a nonprofit organization based in San Francisco that builds technology to defend children from sexual abuse. From 2010 to 2016, the bride worked in various positions for Senator Shaheen. She also worked as the trip director for Hillary Clinton’s general election campaign in New Hampshire in 2016. She graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., and received a master’s degree in international relations from the Universidad Autónoma de Madrid in Spain. She is the daughter of Madeline Q. Cashman and Brian A. Cashman of Litchfield, N.H. The bride’s father retired as a special agent in the Andover, Mass., field office of the Defense Security Service, a federal security agency of the Defense Department based in Quantico, Va. Her mother is a teacher at the Matthew Thornton Elementary School in Londonderry, N.H. The groom, 31, is the communications director for the Trump War Room for American Bridge 21st Century, a democratic opposition research group in Washington. He served as the communications director for Ms. Shaheen’s re-election campaign in 2014 as well as in communication positions in Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. He is a son of Melinda R. Kirstein and Philip L. Kirstein of Princeton, N.J. The groom’s mother retired as a fixed-income portfolio manager in the Plainsboro, N.J., office of Merrill Lynch. She currently works as an independent trustee of the WisdomTree Trust board in New York. His father retired as the senior officer and independent compliance officer of the AllianceBernstein mutual funds in New York. The couple met in 2010 while both were working for the New Hampshire Democratic Party. Meghal Bipin Shah and Dr. Shaan-Chirag Chandrahas Gandhi were married March 31 at the Ritz-Carlton, Sarasota, in Sarasota, Fla. Pandit Jinit Bhatt, a Hindu priest, officiated during a Jain ceremony. Mrs. Gandhi, 32, is an associate in the tax credit transactions practice in the Boston office of Holland & Knight, a law firm based in Florida. She graduated from N.Y.U. and received a law degree from Boston College. She is a daughter of Ketki B Shah and Dr. Bipin D. Shah of Fort Myers, Fla. The bride’s father is an obstetrician and gynecologist there with the Lee Physician Group. Her mother is a vice president on the Lee Memorial Auxiliary at the HealthPark Medical Center, also in Fort Myers. Dr. Gandhi, also 32, is a resident physician in internal medicine at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. In June, he is to start as principal at the Longwood Fund, a health care venture capital firm in Boston. Also in June, he is to begin working as an attending hospital medicine physician at Massachusetts General and an instructor in medicine at Harvard Medical School. He graduated from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, and received a D.Phil. in medical oncology from the University of Oxford, where he was a Rhodes scholar. He also received a medical degree and an M.B.A. from Harvard. He is the son of Kalpana C. O. Gandhi and Chandrahas O. Gandhi of Battle Creek, Mich. The groom’s mother is a retired sonographer there. His father is an industrial engineering consultant, also in Battle Creek. The couple met in 2015 through the dating app Hinge. Jared William Wehrle and Lee Arwood Tracy II were married March 31 at a private residence owned by Miranda Brown in Galveston, Tex. Brian J. Schwenk, a friend of the couple who became ordained through American Marriage Ministries for the event, officiated. Mr. Wehrle (left), 33, is a lawyer with the City Solicitor’s Office of the City of Toronto. He graduated from Concordia University in Montreal and received a law degree from the University of Victoria in British Columbia, Canada. He is a son of Christine J. Wehrle and Mark W. Wehrle of Winnipeg, Manitoba. His father retired as the president of Perimeter Aviation, a Canadian regional airline based in Winnipeg. Mr. Tracy, 24, is a registered nurse in the neuro-oncology unit at Dell Seton Medical Center, a Trauma I level hospital in Austin, Tex. He has a bachelor of science degree from Sam Houston State University and a bachelor of nursing from the University of Texas. He is the son of Laura Michelle Soto-Reyes of Houston and Mr. Tracy of Magnolia, Tex. His mother is the area director of sales for Hyatt Hotels Caribe in San Juan. The couple met in March 2017 at a cafe in Galveston. Valerie Veatch and Benjamin Michael John Rampton were married March 31 at the Fourth Universalist Society in New York. The Rev. Carolyn Strauss, a Universal Life Church minister, performed the ceremony. The bride, 32, is a documentary filmmaker based in New York. She directed and edited “Me @ The Zoo,” a documentary on HBO in 2012 and again in 2013, and also directed and produced “Love Child,” another documentary on HBO in 2014 and 2015. She graduated with distinction from the New School. She is a daughter of Christina Marie Kimball and Kevin Veatch, both of Seattle. The bride’s father is a creative director and music producer there. Her mother is a business coach and a fleet captain at the Seattle Yacht Club. The groom, 35, is a vice president specializing in prime brokerage at JPMorgan Chase in New York. He graduated from Edinburgh University, from which he received a master’s in classics. He is a son of Janet Rampton and Christopher Rampton, both of London. The groom’s father is the director of LTT Capital Partners, an investment management firm in London. The couple met in June 2016 while dancing at Mr. Fong’s, a bar in New York. Janelle Elaine Teng and Jeffrey Steven Eng were married March 31 at the Pierre hotel in New York. Ted Teng, the father of the bride who was ordained by the American Fellowship Church for the occasion, officiated. The couple met in 2008 at Cornell, from which they graduated. Ms. Teng, 28, is a business manager at Condé Nast, where she works on the finance team for GQ, Wired, Golf Digest, Ars Technica and Pitchfork. She is a daughter of Jane L. Wong-Teng and Mr. Teng of Plano, Tex. The bride’s father works in New York as the president and the chief executive of Leading Hotels of the World, a luxury hospitality company based in New York. Mr. Eng, 30, works in Hoboken, N.J., as a strategy and analytics manager at Walmart Global eCommerce based in Bentonville, Ark., where he works on the home category team. He is a son of Lilian S. Eng and Leo Eng of Cos Cob, Conn. The groom’s mother is a real estate broker at Park Allyn Realty Associates in Greenwich, Conn. His father is a manager of Thomas Cleaners, a dry cleaning company in Greenwich. Ariana Elexa Angrisani and Michael Edward Wilson were married March 30 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. On April 21, Matthew Angrisani, a cousin of the bride, is to lead a second ceremony at the Steam Whistle Brewery in Toronto, where he will be commenting on the couple’s relationship. The couple, both 31, met at the University of Michigan, from which they graduated. Mrs. Wilson is a senior marketing manager for lifestyle brands at the Authentic Brands Group, a New York-based licensing and branding company. She is a daughter of Susan J. V. Angrisani and Angelo F. Angrisani of New York. The bride’s father is a sales representative at Eli’s Breads in New York. Her mother is a business development manager at Colavita USA, an importer of olive oil and other foods, in Edison, N.J. Mr. Wilson is a corporate vice president at New York Life Insurance in New York. He is the son of Gene E. Wilson and Donald D. Wilson of Pickering, Ontario. The groom’s mother is a digital marketing specialist for Yellow Pages in Toronto. His father, who also works in Toronto, is a nuclear engineer for Candu, a Canadian pressurized heavy water reactor designed to generate electric power.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
by Monica Castillo April 1, 2018UPDATED April 3, 2018 Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. Every month, subscription streaming services add a new batch of movies and TV shows to their libraries. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for April, broken down by service and release date. Streaming services occasionally change schedules without giving notice. Every month, subscription streaming services add a new batch of movies and TV shows to their libraries. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for April, broken down by service and release date. Streaming services occasionally change schedules without giving notice. When Renée Zellweger got the chance to play a role a world away from her Bridget Jones character, she won an Oscar for it. In this 2003 film, Zellweger plays a tomboyish woman in the beautiful mountains of rural North Carolina who goes to live with a lonely neighbor (Nicole Kidman) who’s waiting for her husband (Jude Law) to come back from the Civil War. Their characters become close friends and rely on each other for survival, which becomes a wonderful (nonromantic) relationship to watch. — When Renée Zellweger got the chance to play a role a world away from her Bridget Jones character, she won an Oscar for it. In this 2003 film, Zellweger plays a tomboyish woman in the beautiful mountains of rural North Carolina who goes to live with a lonely neighbor (Nicole Kidman) who’s waiting for her husband (Jude Law) to come back from the Civil War. Their characters become close friends and rely on each other for survival, which becomes a wonderful (nonromantic) relationship to watch. — Although the robotic star of this movie makes a big cameo in Steven Spielberg’s “Ready Player One,” his role in a fight scene in that film presents a sharp contrast with how audiences first met the gentle Iron Giant in 1999. In the original animated film, a boy named Hogarth finds the large robot from outer space during the paranoia-filled age of the Cold War. He is forced to keep his new best friend a secret even though the giant comes in peace. Unloved at the box office during its first run, “The Iron Giant” later gained a devoted following and helped get its director, Brad Bird, into Pixar Studios, where he went on to make “The Incredibles.”— Although the robotic star of this movie makes a big cameo in Steven Spielberg’s “Ready Player One,” his role in a fight scene in that film presents a sharp contrast with how audiences first met the gentle Iron Giant in 1999. In the original animated film, a boy named Hogarth finds the large robot from outer space during the paranoia-filled age of the Cold War. He is forced to keep his new best friend a secret even though the giant comes in peace. Unloved at the box office during its first run, “The Iron Giant” later gained a devoted following and helped get its director, Brad Bird, into Pixar Studios, where he went on to make “The Incredibles.”— In this three-time Oscar-winner (one of which resulted in this moment), a Jewish Italian father tries to protect his young son from the horrors of a concentration camp after they are captured by Nazis. Roberto Benigni starred in, wrote and directed the movie, which uses slapstick comedy to balance some of the film’s tragic scenes.— In this three-time Oscar-winner (one of which resulted in this moment), a Jewish Italian father tries to protect his young son from the horrors of a concentration camp after they are captured by Nazis. Roberto Benigni starred in, wrote and directed the movie, which uses slapstick comedy to balance some of the film’s tragic scenes.— Before Joel Schumacher became known as the director behind two of the worst “Batman” sequels (“Batman: Forever” and “Batman & Robin”), he made this thrilling horror-comedy about a group of troublemaking vampires who roam a California boardwalk, seducing victims and squaring off against a group of comic-book nerds. It is delightfully ’80s in every respect: the hair, the clothes, the kinds of mischief the kids get up to. And then there’s the cast, which includes ’80s stars like Corey Feldman, Corey Haim, Alex Winter, Dianne Wiest and Kiefer Sutherland, as the leader of the vampire pack.— Before Joel Schumacher became known as the director behind two of the worst “Batman” sequels (“Batman: Forever” and “Batman & Robin”), he made this thrilling horror-comedy about a group of troublemaking vampires who roam a California boardwalk, seducing victims and squaring off against a group of comic-book nerds. It is delightfully ’80s in every respect: the hair, the clothes, the kinds of mischief the kids get up to. And then there’s the cast, which includes ’80s stars like Corey Feldman, Corey Haim, Alex Winter, Dianne Wiest and Kiefer Sutherland, as the leader of the vampire pack.— This is the Brian De Palma movie that launched a handful of catchphrases, many bad Al Pacino impressions and countless movie posters on dorm rooms across the country. Written by Oliver Stone, the film follows the ruthless Cuban gangster Tony Montana as he climbs his way up from being a low-level hood to ruling a slice of the Miami drug scene in the decadent ’80s. In his perverted sense of the American dream, nothing is off limits. It’s a mentality that eventually leads to so many scenes of violence and drug use that it makes “Miami Vice” look like a kid’s show. — This is the Brian De Palma movie that launched a handful of catchphrases, many bad Al Pacino impressions and countless movie posters on dorm rooms across the country. Written by Oliver Stone, the film follows the ruthless Cuban gangster Tony Montana as he climbs his way up from being a low-level hood to ruling a slice of the Miami drug scene in the decadent ’80s. In his perverted sense of the American dream, nothing is off limits. It’s a mentality that eventually leads to so many scenes of violence and drug use that it makes “Miami Vice” look like a kid’s show. — TV’s prettiest-looking cooking series gets its second spinoff, focused on four of the world’s most acclaimed dessert-makers: the Milk Bar’s Christina Tosi, Room 4’s Will Goldfarb, El Celler de Can Roca’s Jordi Roca and Caffè Sicilia’s Corrado Assenza. As always, expect the director-producer David Gelb and his crew to combine these chefs’ philosophical ruminations with drool-worthy images of food.— TV’s prettiest-looking cooking series gets its second spinoff, focused on four of the world’s most acclaimed dessert-makers: the Milk Bar’s Christina Tosi, Room 4’s Will Goldfarb, El Celler de Can Roca’s Jordi Roca and Caffè Sicilia’s Corrado Assenza. As always, expect the director-producer David Gelb and his crew to combine these chefs’ philosophical ruminations with drool-worthy images of food.— Although it only ran for three seasons in the 1960s, the family-friendly science-fiction series “Lost in Space” has maintained a steady presence in popular culture, thanks largely to its memorable characters and endearingly wonky science. Netflix’s new remake appears to be keeping most of what worked the first time out, albeit with updated special effects and a more modern outlook on gender roles. The comically dour Dr. Smith, for example — played by Jonathan Harris in the original — is a woman in this version, and she’s played by a cleverly cast Parker Posey.— Although it only ran for three seasons in the 1960s, the family-friendly science-fiction series “Lost in Space” has maintained a steady presence in popular culture, thanks largely to its memorable characters and endearingly wonky science. Netflix’s new remake appears to be keeping most of what worked the first time out, albeit with updated special effects and a more modern outlook on gender roles. The comically dour Dr. Smith, for example — played by Jonathan Harris in the original — is a woman in this version, and she’s played by a cleverly cast Parker Posey.— President John F. Kennedy’s life, career and death have been covered extensively in documentaries, movie dramas, and TV mini-series, much more than his brother Robert’s political career and assassination. The four-hour docu-series “Bobby Kennedy for President” is an effort to correct that imbalance, using the landmark cultural moment of Kennedy’s 1968 White House run — and its abrupt, tragic end — as a lens through which to observe what he stood for and what he meant to a generation of young idealists.— President John F. Kennedy’s life, career and death have been covered extensively in documentaries, movie dramas, and TV mini-series, much more than his brother Robert’s political career and assassination. The four-hour docu-series “Bobby Kennedy for President” is an effort to correct that imbalance, using the landmark cultural moment of Kennedy’s 1968 White House run — and its abrupt, tragic end — as a lens through which to observe what he stood for and what he meant to a generation of young idealists.— Also of interest: “The Boss Baby: Back in Business” Season 1 (April 6), “The Magic School Bus Rides Again” Season 2 (April 13), “The Chalet” Season 1 (April 17), “Dope” Season 2 (April 20). Also of interest: “The Boss Baby: Back in Business” Season 1 (April 6), “The Magic School Bus Rides Again” Season 2 (April 13), “The Chalet” Season 1 (April 17), “Dope” Season 2 (April 20). The accomplished young comic actors Abbi Jacobson and Dave Franco play against type in the writer-director Marja-Lewis Ryan’s “6 Balloons,” an edgy drama about the stress of dealing with a loved one who’s hooked on drugs. Franco is a heroin addict suffering through a relapse and Jacobson is the hyper-organized, strait-laced sister who spends one long, tense day trying to get him the help he needs while also making sure that his life isn’t totally upended — two goals that aren’t necessarily compatible.— The accomplished young comic actors Abbi Jacobson and Dave Franco play against type in the writer-director Marja-Lewis Ryan’s “6 Balloons,” an edgy drama about the stress of dealing with a loved one who’s hooked on drugs. Franco is a heroin addict suffering through a relapse and Jacobson is the hyper-organized, strait-laced sister who spends one long, tense day trying to get him the help he needs while also making sure that his life isn’t totally upended — two goals that aren’t necessarily compatible.— Chiwetel Ejiofor gives one of the best performances of his long, accomplished career in “Come Sunday,” playing the real-life evangelical minister Carlton Pearson, who around the turn of the millennium began preaching “the Gospel of Inclusion,” arguing that Jesus Christ had saved everyone regardless of a person’s religious beliefs. Directed by Joshua Marston and written by Marcus Hinchey, the film is intended as a bracing challenge to fervent Christian believers, asking them to consider the true purpose of their faith.— Chiwetel Ejiofor gives one of the best performances of his long, accomplished career in “Come Sunday,” playing the real-life evangelical minister Carlton Pearson, who around the turn of the millennium began preaching “the Gospel of Inclusion,” arguing that Jesus Christ had saved everyone regardless of a person’s religious beliefs. Directed by Joshua Marston and written by Marcus Hinchey, the film is intended as a bracing challenge to fervent Christian believers, asking them to consider the true purpose of their faith.— Based on a true story, the indie dramedy “Kodachrome” stars Ed Harris as a cranky, ill old man who takes a road trip with his compassionate nurse (Elizabeth Olsen) and his estranged son (Jason Sudeikis), in order to drop off some undeveloped rolls of film at the last lab in the country that can process them. Similarities to the recent Oscar nominee “Nebraska” are unmistakable, but this move has its own tone and rhythm, paying off in some satisfyingly emotional moments.— Based on a true story, the indie dramedy “Kodachrome” stars Ed Harris as a cranky, ill old man who takes a road trip with his compassionate nurse (Elizabeth Olsen) and his estranged son (Jason Sudeikis), in order to drop off some undeveloped rolls of film at the last lab in the country that can process them. Similarities to the recent Oscar nominee “Nebraska” are unmistakable, but this move has its own tone and rhythm, paying off in some satisfyingly emotional moments.— In 1960, not long after NASA publicly announced the names of the seven pilots who became the first American men in space — the so-called Mercury Seven — a private organization started recruiting women to undergo some of the same psychological and physical tests administered to those men. The purpose: to see if the challenges of flying beyond Earth’s atmosphere differed by gender. The documentary “Mercury 13” is a look into this lesser-known project, considering the way the codified sexism of the post-World War II era denied a one-of-a-kind opportunity to some would-be (and perfectly capable) adventurers.— In 1960, not long after NASA publicly announced the names of the seven pilots who became the first American men in space — the so-called Mercury Seven — a private organization started recruiting women to undergo some of the same psychological and physical tests administered to those men. The purpose: to see if the challenges of flying beyond Earth’s atmosphere differed by gender. The documentary “Mercury 13” is a look into this lesser-known project, considering the way the codified sexism of the post-World War II era denied a one-of-a-kind opportunity to some would-be (and perfectly capable) adventurers.— For the most part, the movies that Adam Sandler has delivered to Netflix as part of his recent four-picture deal have been embarrassingly broad. But there’s reason to hope that this last film in the batch will be the best — in part because it is directed by the incisive veteran comic Robert Smigel (who also wrote the film with Sandler), and in part because it also stars Sandler’s old “Saturday Night Live” castmate Chris Rock. Sandler and Rock play parents who spend an anxious seven days leading up to their kids’ wedding. Rachel Dratch and Steve Buscemi also star, in a film that could potentially hearken to more emotionally complex Sandler projects like “The Wedding Singer.”— For the most part, the movies that Adam Sandler has delivered to Netflix as part of his recent four-picture deal have been embarrassingly broad. But there’s reason to hope that this last film in the batch will be the best — in part because it is directed by the incisive veteran comic Robert Smigel (who also wrote the film with Sandler), and in part because it also stars Sandler’s old “Saturday Night Live” castmate Chris Rock. Sandler and Rock play parents who spend an anxious seven days leading up to their kids’ wedding. Rachel Dratch and Steve Buscemi also star, in a film that could potentially hearken to more emotionally complex Sandler projects like “The Wedding Singer.”— Also of interest: “The 4th Company” (April 6), “Amateur” (April 6), “Orbiter 9” (April 6), “Pickpockets” (April 12), “Dude” (April 20), “Psychokinesis” (April 25) and “Candy Jar” (April 27). Also of interest: “The 4th Company” (April 6), “Amateur” (April 6), “Orbiter 9” (April 6), “Pickpockets” (April 12), “Dude” (April 20), “Psychokinesis” (April 25) and “Candy Jar” (April 27). Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is a man of action and few words. In the not-too-distant future (1997 — the film was released in 1981), Air Force One crash lands in the prison colony of Manhattan, and Plissken is enlisted to rescue the president before the crooks who kidnapped him seek revenge. Along with “The Thing,” this is one of the best 1980s collaborations between Russell and the movie’s director, John Carpenter. Between Russell’s gruff macho-man character, exaggerated villains and dystopian view of New York City, this movie is pretty out there. Breaking up all the seriousness, the classic-movie star Ernest Borgnine shows up for comic relief as an old-school cabdriver looking to help Plissken with his mission.— Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is a man of action and few words. In the not-too-distant future (1997 — the film was released in 1981), Air Force One crash lands in the prison colony of Manhattan, and Plissken is enlisted to rescue the president before the crooks who kidnapped him seek revenge. Along with “The Thing,” this is one of the best 1980s collaborations between Russell and the movie’s director, John Carpenter. Between Russell’s gruff macho-man character, exaggerated villains and dystopian view of New York City, this movie is pretty out there. Breaking up all the seriousness, the classic-movie star Ernest Borgnine shows up for comic relief as an old-school cabdriver looking to help Plissken with his mission.— In his mind, Rupert Pupkin (Robert De Niro) is a TV star, and he’ll do just about anything to make his dream come true — including stalking and kidnapping. This is perhaps one of Martin Scorsese’s more understated movies. It doesn’t have the same amount of violence that movies like “Taxi Driver” or “Goodfellas” have. It’s a psychological drama that is tense and sometimes tragically funny.— In his mind, Rupert Pupkin (Robert De Niro) is a TV star, and he’ll do just about anything to make his dream come true — including stalking and kidnapping. This is perhaps one of Martin Scorsese’s more understated movies. It doesn’t have the same amount of violence that movies like “Taxi Driver” or “Goodfellas” have. It’s a psychological drama that is tense and sometimes tragically funny.— Angela de Marco (Michelle Pfeiffer) has a husband in the mafia (a young and dashing Alec Baldwin), and she wants out. Unfortunately, leaving the mob is harder than breaking a marriage, and Angela is left to defend for herself from gangsters and the feds. The premise sounds bleak, but “Married to the Mob” is a lively Jonathan Demme romantic comedy that gives Pfeiffer a chance to play for laughs. It’s funny but poignant, bubbly but still dark at times — all in equal measure so nothing is out of whack.— Angela de Marco (Michelle Pfeiffer) has a husband in the mafia (a young and dashing Alec Baldwin), and she wants out. Unfortunately, leaving the mob is harder than breaking a marriage, and Angela is left to defend for herself from gangsters and the feds. The premise sounds bleak, but “Married to the Mob” is a lively Jonathan Demme romantic comedy that gives Pfeiffer a chance to play for laughs. It’s funny but poignant, bubbly but still dark at times — all in equal measure so nothing is out of whack.— This is the low-budget found-footage horror film that helped kick off a craze in the late 2000s. Suspecting there’s something strange lurking in their new home, a young couple sets up stationary cameras to capture whatever might be creeping around at night. But the cause of the disturbances is more terrifying than they anticipated. For best results, watch this movie at night, right before you go to bed.— This is the low-budget found-footage horror film that helped kick off a craze in the late 2000s. Suspecting there’s something strange lurking in their new home, a young couple sets up stationary cameras to capture whatever might be creeping around at night. But the cause of the disturbances is more terrifying than they anticipated. For best results, watch this movie at night, right before you go to bed.— This is both a great mother-daughter movie and a good one to watch with girlfriends. “Steel Magnolias” is about a group of women in the South and the many highs and lows of their collective experiences. The central story follows a hard-to-please mother (Sally Field) and her diabetic daughter (Julia Roberts), who despite her fragile health still wants kids. Field and Roberts are amazing, but there isn’t a bad performer in a cast that includes Shirley MacLaine, Daryl Hannah, Olympia Dukakis and Dolly Parton in one of her best onscreen roles.— This is both a great mother-daughter movie and a good one to watch with girlfriends. “Steel Magnolias” is about a group of women in the South and the many highs and lows of their collective experiences. The central story follows a hard-to-please mother (Sally Field) and her diabetic daughter (Julia Roberts), who despite her fragile health still wants kids. Field and Roberts are amazing, but there isn’t a bad performer in a cast that includes Shirley MacLaine, Daryl Hannah, Olympia Dukakis and Dolly Parton in one of her best onscreen roles.— For those not familiar with the Mexican musician Chavela Vargas, let this inspiring documentary be your guide. She was a pants-wearing pioneer in an era when Mexican women didn’t sing ranchera music onstage without wearing super frilly dresses. But Vargas ditched the costume, picked up a guitar and sang haunting songs of longing and loss. This documentary goes to great lengths to explain the mysterious Vargas through old interviews and recordings, but it can sometimes feel as if she’s just out of reach. She’s keeping some secrets to herself.— For those not familiar with the Mexican musician Chavela Vargas, let this inspiring documentary be your guide. She was a pants-wearing pioneer in an era when Mexican women didn’t sing ranchera music onstage without wearing super frilly dresses. But Vargas ditched the costume, picked up a guitar and sang haunting songs of longing and loss. This documentary goes to great lengths to explain the mysterious Vargas through old interviews and recordings, but it can sometimes feel as if she’s just out of reach. She’s keeping some secrets to herself.— Sean Baker made a splash at Sundance a few years ago with “Tangerine,” a sun-drenched, foul-mouthed comedy starring two transgender actresses and shot with an iPhone. His follow-up, “The Florida Project,” is no less daring. Set amid a string of pastel-colored roadside motels in Orlando, Fla., just outside the Happiest Place on Earth, the movie follows a precocious 6-year-old troublemaker named Moonee (Brooklynn Prince) as she and her friends wreak havoc and her quick-tempered mother (Bria Vinaite) tries to keep up with the rent. Willem Dafoe gives a career-best performance as their motel’s beleaguered manager, who becomes a kind of surrogate father to Moonee.— Sean Baker made a splash at Sundance a few years ago with “Tangerine,” a sun-drenched, foul-mouthed comedy starring two transgender actresses and shot with an iPhone. His follow-up, “The Florida Project,” is no less daring. Set amid a string of pastel-colored roadside motels in Orlando, Fla., just outside the Happiest Place on Earth, the movie follows a precocious 6-year-old troublemaker named Moonee (Brooklynn Prince) as she and her friends wreak havoc and her quick-tempered mother (Bria Vinaite) tries to keep up with the rent. Willem Dafoe gives a career-best performance as their motel’s beleaguered manager, who becomes a kind of surrogate father to Moonee.— Also of interest: “Basic Instinct” (April 1), “Carrie” (April 1), “For a Few Dollars More” (April 1), “Friday the 13th” (April 1), “The Karate Kid” (April 1), “Marathon Man” (April 1), “Mystic River” (April 1), “Philadelphia” (April 1), “Project Nim” (April 1) and “Spaceballs” (April 1). Also of interest: “Basic Instinct” (April 1), “Carrie” (April 1), “For a Few Dollars More” (April 1), “Friday the 13th” (April 1), “The Karate Kid” (April 1), “Marathon Man” (April 1), “Mystic River” (April 1), “Philadelphia” (April 1), “Project Nim” (April 1) and “Spaceballs” (April 1). It is difficult to pick the movie with the best Nicolas Cage reaction shots, but this bombastic Jerry Bruckheimer movie from 1997 is near the top. In it, Cage plays a convict and former soldier who is on his way out of jail when the plane he is on gets hijacked by his fellow inmates. Of course, it wouldn’t be a ’90s Cage action movie without lots of fighting, over-the-top explosions and some pithy one-liners.— It is difficult to pick the movie with the best Nicolas Cage reaction shots, but this bombastic Jerry Bruckheimer movie from 1997 is near the top. In it, Cage plays a convict and former soldier who is on his way out of jail when the plane he is on gets hijacked by his fellow inmates. Of course, it wouldn’t be a ’90s Cage action movie without lots of fighting, over-the-top explosions and some pithy one-liners.— Meryl Streep is at her funniest in this little black comedy about jealousy and magic. In it, Streep plays Madeline, a gorgeous movie star who steals the handsome fiancé (Bruce Willis) of the much plainer Helen (Goldie Hawn), thus setting a disastrous course for both women. Their jealousy drives them to dark magic, which has some interesting physical side effects. “Death Becomes Her” has a lighthearted, macabre sense of humor, full of morbid slapstick stunts and neck-twisting pratfalls. But it is also a bittersweet comedy about female friendships and impossible beauty standards. — Meryl Streep is at her funniest in this little black comedy about jealousy and magic. In it, Streep plays Madeline, a gorgeous movie star who steals the handsome fiancé (Bruce Willis) of the much plainer Helen (Goldie Hawn), thus setting a disastrous course for both women. Their jealousy drives them to dark magic, which has some interesting physical side effects. “Death Becomes Her” has a lighthearted, macabre sense of humor, full of morbid slapstick stunts and neck-twisting pratfalls. But it is also a bittersweet comedy about female friendships and impossible beauty standards. — This 1962 war epic from director David Lean is on a lot of “best movies” lists — and with good reason. The film is among the best of its genre, with its sweeping views of windswept battlegrounds and its penetrating look into the ways that war drives men mad. It’s the story of T.E. Lawrence, who during World War I goes from being an insubordinate officer to a troubled leader. “Lawrence of Arabia” is celebrated for Lean’s stunning direction, for Maurice Jarre’s unforgettable score, for Anne V. Coates’s brilliant editing and for its remarkable cast, which includes Peter O’Toole, Omar Sharif, Alec Guinness and Claude Raines. Don’t let the three-and-a-half-hour run time scare you off. Just put the movie on the biggest screen you can find, and make enough popcorn to get you to the intermission.— This 1962 war epic from director David Lean is on a lot of “best movies” lists — and with good reason. The film is among the best of its genre, with its sweeping views of windswept battlegrounds and its penetrating look into the ways that war drives men mad. It’s the story of T.E. Lawrence, who during World War I goes from being an insubordinate officer to a troubled leader. “Lawrence of Arabia” is celebrated for Lean’s stunning direction, for Maurice Jarre’s unforgettable score, for Anne V. Coates’s brilliant editing and for its remarkable cast, which includes Peter O’Toole, Omar Sharif, Alec Guinness and Claude Raines. Don’t let the three-and-a-half-hour run time scare you off. Just put the movie on the biggest screen you can find, and make enough popcorn to get you to the intermission.— Although it is classified as a documentary, this deeply personal film from Sarah Polley almost feels like a work of fiction. But it isn’t. As Polley peels back the layers of her own family’s history, there’s a kind of “Rashomon” effect that happens as old family myths unravel and stories shift perspective. What results is a touching and breathtaking investigation into ideas of family, narrative and memory.— Although it is classified as a documentary, this deeply personal film from Sarah Polley almost feels like a work of fiction. But it isn’t. As Polley peels back the layers of her own family’s history, there’s a kind of “Rashomon” effect that happens as old family myths unravel and stories shift perspective. What results is a touching and breathtaking investigation into ideas of family, narrative and memory.— Also of interest: “Carrie” (April 1), “For a Few Dollars More” (April 1), “Friday the 13th” (April 1), “Married to the Mob” (April 1), “Paranormal Activity” (April 1), “Project Nim” (April 1), “Spaceballs” (April 1), “Taxi Driver” (April 1), “Life is Beautiful” (April 15) and “Loving Vincent” (April 19). Also of interest: “Carrie” (April 1), “For a Few Dollars More” (April 1), “Friday the 13th” (April 1), “Married to the Mob” (April 1), “Paranormal Activity” (April 1), “Project Nim” (April 1), “Spaceballs” (April 1), “Taxi Driver” (April 1), “Life is Beautiful” (April 15) and “Loving Vincent” (April 19). Released in 1980, this is a classic call to arms for women facing workplace harassment. The chauvinist boss to the characters played by Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin and Dolly Parton is one of the worst onscreen employers in moviedom. After so many degrading incidents, the women get their righteous revenge on him, serving him a well-overdue comeuppance. The three women are wonderful together, and “Grace and Frankie” fans will really get a kick out of seeing an early pairing of Tomlin and Fonda.— Released in 1980, this is a classic call to arms for women facing workplace harassment. The chauvinist boss to the characters played by Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin and Dolly Parton is one of the worst onscreen employers in moviedom. After so many degrading incidents, the women get their righteous revenge on him, serving him a well-overdue comeuppance. The three women are wonderful together, and “Grace and Frankie” fans will really get a kick out of seeing an early pairing of Tomlin and Fonda.— There are certain movies that make you happy that you don’t have kids. If you are a parent already, then be happy that your child isn’t the actual spawn of Satan, like the creepy child at the center of “The Omen.” This original 1976 version stars Gregory Peck as the adoptive father of a demon boy who brings him hell. There are sequels, of course, but nothing gets quite as unnerving as watching the original Son of Satan scare the daylights out of Peck.— There are certain movies that make you happy that you don’t have kids. If you are a parent already, then be happy that your child isn’t the actual spawn of Satan, like the creepy child at the center of “The Omen.” This original 1976 version stars Gregory Peck as the adoptive father of a demon boy who brings him hell. There are sequels, of course, but nothing gets quite as unnerving as watching the original Son of Satan scare the daylights out of Peck.— Written and directed by Adrienne Shelly, “Waitress” is a comedy-drama about a young mo