Advertisement By SHEERA FRENKEL and NATASHA SINGERMARCH 28, 2018
 Facebook said it would roll out a centralized system for its users to control their privacy and security settings in response to an outcry over the way it has handled personal data. The system, which will be introduced to Facebook users globally over the coming weeks, will allow people to change their privacy and security settings from one place rather than having to go to roughly 20 separate sections across the social media platform. From the new page, users can control the personal information the social network keeps on them, such as their political preferences or interests, and download and review a file of data Facebook has collected about them. Facebook also will clarify what types of apps people are currently using and what permissions those apps have to gather their information. Facebook began developing the centralized system last year but sped it up after revelations that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested the information of 50 million users of the social network. The amount of data Cambridge Analytica obtained about Facebook users reawakened fears over how much information the social network has gathered about people, leading to a #DeleteFacebook movement and other criticism. Advertisement “The last week showed how much more work we need to do to enforce our policies, and to help people understand how Facebook works and the choices they have over their data,” Erin Egan, Facebook’s chief privacy officer, and Ashlie Beringer, a Facebook deputy general counsel, said in a statement announcing the new system. “We’ve heard loud and clear that privacy settings and other important tools are too hard to find, and that we must do more to keep people informed.” Advertisement The Cambridge Analytica scandal has plunged Facebook into its worst crisis in years, with regulators and lawmakers in the United States and Britain demanding answers about how the social network deals with data privacy. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has agreed to appear in front of lawmakers on Capitol Hill next month, people familiar with the decision have said. Last week, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement that Facebook had to do better with user data and promised to roll out products that give users more control over their information and privacy settings. In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which data from over 50 million Facebook profiles was secretly scraped and mined for voter insights, many Facebook users have decided to delete their accounts — but untangling yourself from a site like Facebook is not as easy as pressing “delete.” “One of our biggest responsibilities is to protect data,” he told The New York Times last week. “Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to, that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar. Late Wednesday, Facebook also said that it was halting its practice of allowing advertisers to target ads using information from third-party data brokers. These are business-to-business companies that can collect a vast range of details about individual consumers such as their shopping habits, health concerns, income range and preferred credit card. The social network had previously allowed advertisers to use consumer details from data brokers like Experian, Acxiom and Oracle’s Datalogix unit to help target ads to Facebook users. But Facebook said it was now mothballing that option, called “Partner Categories.” ”We want to let advertisers know that we will be shutting down Partner Categories,” Graham Mudd, a product marketing director at Facebook, said in a statement. The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “This product enables third-party data providers to offer their targeting directly on Facebook,” he added. “While this is common industry practice, we believe this step, winding down over the next six months, will help improve people’s privacy on Facebook.” Advertisement In 2012, the Federal Trade Commission opened an inquiry into data brokers and subsequently recommended that Congress consider enacting a law “to make data broker practices more visible to consumers and to give consumers greater control over the immense amounts of personal information about them collected and shared by data brokers.” How much of a difference these actions may make to Facebook’s data privacy practices was unclear. Some privacy advocates noted, for instance, that the company’s new centralized privacy and security settings page has been tried in the past. “The platform made similar promises many times before,” said Zeynep Tufekci, an associate professor at the University of North Carolina who studies how technology affects society. She pointed out that in 2010, Mr. Zuckerberg said in The Washington Post that Facebook users needed simpler controls over their privacy and had promised then that Facebook would “add privacy controls that are much simpler to use.” Yet eight years later, the same concerns have resurfaced, Ms. Tufekci said. “The past decade shows that user concerns over privacy appear to have little teeth on changing how the platform behaves, aside from a recycling of contrite statements and promises to do better from its C.E.O.,” she said. Follow Sheera Frenkel and Natasha Singer on Twitter: @sheeraf and @natashanyt A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook, Stung by Data Harvest, Says It Will Centralize Its Privacy Settings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and MATTHEW ROSENBERGMARCH 27, 2018
 As a start-up called Cambridge Analytica sought to harvest the Facebook data of tens of millions of Americans in summer 2014, the company received help from at least one employee at Palantir Technologies, a top Silicon Valley contractor to American spy agencies and the Pentagon. It was a Palantir employee in London, working closely with the data scientists building Cambridge’s psychological profiling technology, who suggested the scientists create their own app — a mobile-phone-based personality quiz — to gain access to Facebook users’ friend networks, according to documents obtained by The New York Times. Cambridge ultimately took a similar approach. By early summer, the company found a university researcher to harvest data using a personality questionnaire and Facebook app. The researcher scraped private data from over 50 million Facebook users — and Cambridge Analytica went into business selling so-called psychometric profiles of American voters, setting itself on a collision course with regulators and lawmakers in the United States and Britain. [Read more about the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower contending that data-mining swung the Brexit referendum.] Advertisement The revelations pulled Palantir — co-founded by the wealthy libertarian Peter Thiel — into the furor surrounding Cambridge, which improperly obtained Facebook data to build analytical tools it deployed on behalf of Donald J. Trump and other Republican candidates in 2016. Mr. Thiel, a supporter of President Trump, serves on the board at Facebook. Advertisement “There were senior Palantir employees that were also working on the Facebook data,” said Christopher Wylie, a data expert and Cambridge Analytica co-founder, in testimony before British lawmakers on Tuesday. Cambridge Analytica has found itself confronting a deepening crisis since reports about the firm’s data harvesting were published this month in The New York Times, The Observer of London and The Guardian. The connections between Palantir and Cambridge Analytica were thrust into the spotlight by Mr. Wylie’s testimony on Tuesday. Both companies are linked to tech-driven billionaires who backed Mr. Trump’s campaign: Cambridge is chiefly owned by Robert Mercer, the computer scientist and hedge fund magnate, while Palantir was co-founded in 2003 by Mr. Thiel, who was an initial investor in Facebook. The Palantir employee, Alfredas Chmieliauskas, works on business development for the company, according to his LinkedIn page. In an initial statement, Palantir said it had “never had a relationship with Cambridge Analytica, nor have we ever worked on any Cambridge Analytica data.” Later on Tuesday, Palantir revised its account, saying that Mr. Chmieliauskas was not acting on the company’s behalf when he advised Mr. Wylie on the Facebook data. “We learned today that an employee, in 2013-2014, engaged in an entirely personal capacity with people associated with Cambridge Analytica,” the company said. “We are looking into this and will take the appropriate action.” The company said it was continuing to investigate but knew of no other employees who took part in the effort. Mr. Wylie told lawmakers that multiple Palantir employees played a role. Documents and interviews indicate that starting in 2013, Mr. Chmieliauskas began corresponding with Mr. Wylie and a colleague from his Gmail account. At the time, Mr. Wylie and the colleague worked for the British defense and intelligence contractor SCL Group, which formed Cambridge Analytica with Mr. Mercer the next year. The three shared Google documents to brainstorm ideas about using big data to create sophisticated behavioral profiles, a product code-named “Big Daddy.” Advertisement A former intern at SCL — Sophie Schmidt, the daughter of Eric Schmidt, then Google’s executive chairman — urged the company to link up with Palantir, according to Mr. Wylie’s testimony and a June 2013 email viewed by The Times. “Ever come across Palantir. Amusingly Eric Schmidt’s daughter was an intern with us and is trying to push us towards them?” one SCL employee wrote to a colleague in the email. Ms. Schmidt did not respond to requests for comment, nor did a spokesman for Cambridge Analytica. In early 2013, Alexander Nix, an SCL director who became chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, and a Palantir executive discussed working together on election campaigns. A Palantir spokeswoman acknowledged that the companies had briefly considered working together but said that Palantir declined a partnership, in part because executives there wanted to steer clear of election work. Emails reviewed by The Times indicate that Mr. Nix and Mr. Chmieliauskas sought to revive talks about a formal partnership through early 2014, but Palantir executives again declined. In his testimony, Mr. Wylie acknowledged that Palantir and Cambridge Analytica never signed a contract or entered into a formal business relationship. But he said some Palantir employees helped engineer Cambridge’s psychographic models. “There were Palantir staff who would come into the office and work on the data,” Mr. Wylie told lawmakers. “And we would go and meet with Palantir staff at Palantir.” He did not provide an exact number for the employees or identify them. Palantir employees were impressed with Cambridge’s backing from Mr. Mercer, one of the world’s richest men, according to messages viewed by The Times. And Cambridge Analytica viewed Palantir’s Silicon Valley ties as a valuable resource for launching and expanding its own business. In an interview this month with The Times, Mr. Wylie said that Palantir employees were eager to learn more about using Facebook data and psychographics. Those discussions continued through spring 2014, according to Mr. Wylie. Advertisement Mr. Wylie said that he and Mr. Nix visited Palantir’s London office on Soho Square. One side was set up like a high-security office, Mr. Wylie said, with separate rooms that could be entered only with particular codes. The other side, he said, was like a tech start-up — “weird inspirational quotes and stuff on the wall and free beer, and there’s a Ping-Pong table.” Mr. Chmieliauskas continued to communicate with Mr. Wylie’s team in 2014, as the Cambridge employees were locked in protracted negotiations with a researcher at Cambridge University, Michal Kosinski, to obtain Facebook data through an app Mr. Kosinski had built. The data was crucial to efficiently scale up Cambridge’s psychometrics products so they could be used in elections and for corporate clients. “I had left field idea,” Mr. Chmieliauskas wrote in May 2014. “What about replicating the work of the cambridge prof as a mobile app that connects to facebook?” Reproducing the app, Mr. Chmieliauskas wrote, “could be a valuable leverage negotiating with the guy.” Those negotiations failed. But Mr. Wylie struck gold with another Cambridge researcher, the Russian-American psychologist Aleksandr Kogan, who built his own personality quiz app for Facebook. Over subsequent months, Dr. Kogan’s work helped Cambridge develop psychological profiles of millions of American voters. Carole Cadwalladr contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Spy Contractor’s Idea Helped A Firm Harvest Facebook Data.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Letter To the Editor: Re “How Democracy Can Survive Big Data,” by Colin Koopman (The Stone, Sunday Review, March 25): The standard for internet privacy is being set by the European Union, through its General Data Protection Regulation, which goes into effect on May 25. The United States, half-asleep at the wheel, and given to little or no oversight of our data economy, now finds itself in the standard operating position of just reacting to events. Social media mavens like Mark Zuckerberg can’t be expected to solve the inherent problems attributed to Facebook without strong federal regulation and enforcement. Citizens of the European Union will be afforded sweeping protections of privacy that American citizens can only dream about. Look across the Atlantic for some answers. RICHARD STEELESTUDIO CITY, CALIF. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 8:56 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network, a step that follows a scandal over how Facebook handles personal information. The world's largest social media company is under pressure to improve its handling of data after disclosing that information about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica. Facebook adjusted the privacy settings on its service on Wednesday, giving users control over their personal information in fewer taps. Facebook has for years given advertisers the option of targeting their ads based on data collected by companies such as Acxiom Corp and Experian PLC. Advertisement The tool has been widely used among certain categories of advertisers - such as automakers, luxury goods producers and consumer packaged goods companies - who do not sell directly to consumers and have relatively little information about who their customers are, according to Facebook. Advertisement "While this is common industry practice, we believe this step, winding down over the next six months, will help improve people's privacy on Facebook," Graham Mudd, a Facebook product marketing director, said in a statement. Shares in Acxiom traded down more than 10 percent to $25 after Facebook's announcement after the bell. Shares in other data brokers were largely unchanged. A representative for Acxiom could not immediately be reached for comment. Facebook declined to comment on how the change could affect its ad revenue. Advertisers would still be able to use third-party data services to measure how well their ads performed by examining purchasing data, Facebook said. Facebook's website lists nine third-party data providers that it has worked with, including Acxiom, Experian, Oracle Data Cloud, TransUnion and WPP PLC. None of the companies could immediately be reached for comment. Facebook on Wednesday also put all its privacy settings on one page and made it easier to stop third-party apps from using personal information. Privacy settings had previously been spread over at least 20 screens, Facebook said. Facebook said in a blog post it had been working on the updates for some time but sped things up to appease users' anger over how the company uses data and as lawmakers around the globe call for regulation. Facebook's shares closed up 0.5 percent at $153.03 on Wednesday. They are still down more than 17 percent since March 16, when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled in 2014 via a third-party app to Cambridge Analytica, which was later hired by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The data leak has raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers, who are Facebook's lifeblood, and lead to tougher regulation. Advertisement SCRUTINY FROM LAWMAKERS Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has repeatedly apologized for the mistakes the company made and has promised to crack down on abuse of the Facebook platform and restrict developers' access to user information. There is a new Facebook page - called Access Your Information - where users can see what they have shared and manage it. "The biggest difference is ease of access in settings, which fulfills Mark Zuckerberg's promise to make the privacy process and permissions more transparent to users," Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter said. It was uncertain whether the changes will satisfy lawmakers. They were announced ahead of a stringent European Union data law which comes into force in May. It requires companies to give people a "right to portability" - to take their data with them - and imposes fines of up to 4 percent of global revenue for companies breaking the law. Lawmakers in the United States and Britain are still clamoring for Zuckerberg himself to explain how users' data ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica. He plans to testify before Congress, a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday. Facebook has said it has received invitations to testify and that it is talking to legislators. Zuckerberg and the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc have been invited to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy. The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee have also asked Zuckerberg to appear at a hearing. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into Facebook, and attorneys representing 37 states are also pressing Zuckerberg to explain what happened. (Reporting by David Ingram and Julia Fioretti; Additional reporting by Laharee Chatterjee and Arjun Panchadar; Editing by James Dalgleish and Cynthia Osterman) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By SAPNA MAHESHWARIMARCH 28, 2018
 An advertising trade group that gave an award to Cambridge Analytica last year for its “big data” work during the 2016 presidential election is now urging marketers to reconsider the ethics of how consumer information is collected and used. The trade group, the Advertising Research Foundation, said it was waiting for more information before formally rescinding the award given to Cambridge Analytica, the British political consulting firm that was recently reported to have improperly harvested the data of 50 million Facebook users. The revelations have brought intense criticism of Facebook, which is facing inquiries from lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic around how it handles user information, and have many people taking a closer look at the role of data in online advertising. "We’ve tended to assume that because you can do something, you should,” Scott McDonald, chief executive of the ad group, said in an interview on Tuesday. He added that advertisers had been more concerned with the accuracy and validity of data they received from technology companies than with asking whether they should be collecting that data and using it to target consumers in the first place. Mr. McDonald addressed the Cambridge Analytica situation and the need for new guidelines during a speech on Wednesday morning at the group’s annual convention in New York. Advertisement Things were much different last year, when Cambridge Analytica won a gold prize at the foundation’s David Ogilvy Awards, which have been given annually since 1994. The firm was honored for its work for the Trump campaign, in which it identified and advertised to undecided voters. Advertisement The selection, made by a jury of ad industry leaders, was “very controversial because of the nature of the campaign,” Mr. McDonald said. But the ad group viewed itself as “Switzerland,” he said, and was simply conducting “a scientific evaluation of the quality of work.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Nobody had any idea the data might have been pilfered,” he said. Mr. McDonald said he planned to potentially poll the jury again and “see if the accusations are sustained” before officially stripping Cambridge Analytica of the award. The existence of the award highlights the enthusiasm with which marketers have approached the reams of consumer data generated by digital devices and their belief that people are happy to share whatever information technology may be collecting from them. The Advertising Research Foundation, which acknowledged that the United States may adopt new regulations on how consumer data is collected, said it planned to work with other industry groups to form new guidelines for collecting and protecting that information. Mr. McDonald said advertising had gone too far in viewing consumers as prey, noting that even the industry’s vocabulary had become militarylike. “We talk about ad campaigns, consumers we target. We talk about subway takeovers, pop-ups,” he said. “These are fairly aggressive, and I don’t think we even think about it — they’re just embedded in the metaphors of advertising.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By DAN LEVINMARCH 27, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  Outrage in Russia, a secret visit to Beijing and an abortion debate in Germany. Here’s the latest: • Pressure is building in Russia. President Vladimir Putin declared a nationwide day of mourning over the mall fire in Kemerovo that killed at least 64 people, including many children. As Mr. Putin blamed “criminal negligence” for the fire, thousands of people, above, protested nearby to demand transparency and accountability. “I no longer have a family,” one demonstrator said. “The ruling regime is guilty.” And after the mass expulsions of Russian diplomats over the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy on British soil, some in the Kremlin say tensions with the West could become more volatile than during the Cold War. Advertisement _____ • A surprise international debut. North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, met secretly with China’s president, Xi Jinping, in Beijing. The clandestine discussions came weeks before planned summit meetings with American and South Korean leaders. Advertisement It was Mr. Kim’s first trip outside North Korea since taking power six years ago, and may signal that he is trying to soothe strained relations amid the rush of global diplomacy around North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. China confirmed the trip this morning only after Mr. Kim left Beijing on the same armored train that stirred speculation when it arrived mysteriously in the Chinese capital on Monday. (Mr. Kim’s father and grandfather, the North’s former leaders, used similar trains for foreign trips.) Meanwhile, a new North Korean reactor appears to be coming online. _____ • Repeal America’s right to bear arms? John Paul Stevens, a retired U.S. Supreme Court justice, writes in a Times Op-Ed that scrapping the Second Amendment would move gun-law campaigners “closer to their objective than any other possible reform.” Mr. Stevens argues that, until a 2008 Supreme Court ruling, there was no absolute right to guns. He calls the amendment “a relic,” and says it needs to go. Separately, the National Rifle Association acknowledged that it accepts foreign donations but said it does not use them for election work, a response to growing pressure from federal investigators examining whether Russia used the group to influence the 2016 presidential election. _____ • A Nazi-era law  in Germany forbids doctors to advertise publicly that they perform abortions. Advertisement Chancellor Angela Merkel, above, pledged to change the law, but a spiraling debate over the issue is driving a wedge in her new government. Meanwhile, a top Moscow avant-garde theater performing in Berlin is drawing attention to the plight of its leader, who is under house arrest in Russia and is an outspoken critic of President Vladimir Putin. _____ • If Carles Puigdemont, the former leader of Catalonia who was seized in Germany on Sunday, is returned to Spain, a trial could backfire by galvanizing the Catalan separatist movement. Above, a supporter of secession during a protest in Barcelona yesterday. But Mr. Puigdemont's arrest is already posing a test for European cohesion. _____ • Cosmetic surgery for a fish? That may sound extreme. But the Asian arowana, above, is not your average pet store fish. They’re a prized status symbol across Asia, with price tags that can reach tens of thousands of dollars. So for owners, less than $100 for an eyelift or chin job is pocket change. What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • H&M, one of the world’s biggest clothing retailers, has reported terrible results. Even worse: It has a $4 billion pile of clothes no one wants to buy. • Cambridge Analytica, the firm at the center of the Facebook data scandal, got help from an employee at Palantir Technologies, a top Silicon Valley contractor to American spy agencies that was co-founded by Peter Thiel, a supporter of President Trump. • Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, agreed to testify before Congress over the social network’s handling of customer data. Advertisement • President Trump’s first major trade deal, with South Korea, may have been driven by looming talks with North Korea. • After Citigroup limited firearm sales by its retail clients, our business columnist suggested two more steps that banks could take to influence the gun control debate. • “Green gold.” How the avocado became the fruit of global trade. • U.S. stocks were lower. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • The whistle-blower Christopher Wylie, above, who helped found Cambridge Analytica, told Britain’s Parliament that data-mining had swung the Brexit referendum. [The New York Times] • Hungary’s anti-immigrant prime minister, Viktor Orban, has waged a war on his nation’s democracy. Now, some fear his relentless remolding of Hungarian society. [The New York Times] • France’s top appeals court upheld a 30,000 euro fine against the National Front founder Jean-Marie Le Pen for dismissing Nazi gas chambers as a “detail” of World War II. [Politico] • Are you a U.S. citizen? The 2020 U.S. census will ask respondents that question to measure how many people are eligible to vote. Critics say it will result in a significant undercount of the population. [The New York Times] • Cyberattacks on Atlanta’s city government have crippled its computer networks and forced it back to doing business with ink and paper. [The New York Times] Advertisement • A waiter in Canada was fired for rude behavior. His excuse: he’s French. [The Washington Post] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Encourage great hotel service by following these tips. • Determine whether your sickness is contagious. • Recipe of the day: Tonight, bake a lemon tart with a filling that’s somewhere between a custard and a pudding. • An American man, above, was wrongfully convicted of rape and murder and spent 23 years behind bars. This week, he returned to work as a groundskeeper for the Chicago White Sox baseball team. • A scientist searches for the world’s last remaining quiet places. This virtual reality Op-Doc takes you to a remote rain forest for a new perspective on the power of silence. • And the secrets of cockroaches: They can live for a week without a head and run as fast as 210 miles an hour, relative to their size. All of those feats, and more, are encoded in the insect’s genome, which scientists recently finished sequencing. Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles. This week’s word: torii. Torii (pronounced TOR-ee-ee) are familiar as a symbol of Japan, but many solvers were unsure of the word when it appeared in the March 20 puzzle with the clue “Traditional Japanese gate.” It has appeared 63 times in Times crosswords. Advertisement These gates, which have a traditional shape and structure, are closely related to the Shinto religion. Typically located at the entrance of Shinto shrines or in spots that hold special religious significance, they signal to worshipers a transition from the profane world to the sacred. By walking through the torii, one has entered the world of the Kami, or Shinto gods. The earliest documentation of the torii in Japan dates to 922 A.D., during the Heian period. The structure of the torii varies, but the most important parts are the pillars (hashira), the lintel placed on the two pillars (kasagi) and a tie-beam that keeps the structure together (nuki). For the easier puzzles at the beginning of the week, the word might also appear with the clue: “Shinto temple gateway” or “Shinto gateway.” Later in the week, it might be referred to as: “Shinto shrine entrance,” “Traditional Japantown feature,” “Decorative gateway in Japan” or “Japanese portal.” Deb Amlen contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com. Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:38 A.M. E.D.T.
 WELLINGTON —  New Zealand's privacy commissioner joined international criticism against Facebook Inc, saying on Wednesday it has broken the law by declining a citizen access to personal information held on the accounts of other users. In a statement, the commissioner said that after being notified of its complaint, Facebook responded that it did not have to comply with the body's demand for the information. The commissioner "considers it necessary to publicly identify Facebook in order to highlight its demonstrated unwillingness to comply with the law, and to inform the New Zealand public of Facebook's position," the statement said. The commissioner's statement said "the social media company said the Privacy Act did not apply to it and it did not have to comply with the Commissioner's request to review the information requested by the complainant." Advertisement The commissioner said its powers beyond demanding information were limited. A spokeswoman for Facebook said the company had investigated the complaint but had not been provided enough detail to fully resolve it. Advertisement "We are disappointed that the New Zealand Privacy Commissioner asked us to provide access to a year's worth of private data belonging to several people and then criticized us for protecting their privacy," she said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We scrutinize all requests to disclose personal data, particularly the contents of private messages, and will challenge those that are overly broad...Instead the Commissioner has made a broad and intrusive request for private data." Facebook has come into spotlight over the past week over its handling of data from millions of users. Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about the company's privacy practices after a whistleblower said consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in elections. Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in U.S. President Donald Trump's campaign, and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. (Reporting by Marius Zaharia in WELLINGTON. Additional reporting by Melanie Burton in MELBOURNE; Editing by Richard Borsuk and Michael Perry) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 8:51 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  The Latest on Facebook's burgeoning privacy scandal (all times local): 8:30 p.m. Facebook says it is shutting down a type of advertising product that allowed marketers to use data from people's lives outside of Facebook to target them on the platform. The information includes categories like home ownership and purchase history and is collected by some of the world's largest data brokers such as Acxiom, Epsilon and Experian. Facebook's product marketing director Graham Mudd said in a statement that shutting down the feature over the next six months "will help improve people's privacy on Facebook." The program allowed specific targeting of audiences using offline data about them in the U.S., Brazil, France, Germany, the U.K., Australia and Japan. Advertisement ___ 12:15 p.m. Playboy Enterprises says it's pulling its Facebook presence as the privacy scandal enveloping the social media service continues to grow. Advertisement Playboy says it's been difficult anyway to "express our values" because of Facebook's strict content and policy guidelines, which include restrictions on nudity. Playboy says the alleged data mismanagement is the last straw. About 25 million people interacted with Playboy's Facebook pages. Playboy Enterprises Inc. says it will deactivate the accounts that it manages directly. A smattering of other companies have made similar moves, including nonprofit Mozilla, which created the Firefox browser, Elon Musk's companies SpaceX and Tesla and German bank Commerzbank. ___ 11:30 a.m. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg plans to testify before Congress about the company's privacy practices in coming weeks, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. This person spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. Zuckerberg is aware there is intense pressure on him to testify, this person says. Zuckerberg said last week in a CNN interview that he'd be "happy" to testify, but didn't commit to appear. Facebook is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that a data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections. A spokeswoman for the House Energy and Commerce Committee said Tuesday that the committee is working with Facebook to determine a day and time for Zuckerberg to testify. ___ 7 a.m. Facebook is giving its privacy tools a makeover as it reels from criticisms over its data practices and faces tighter European regulations in the coming months. Advertisement The changes won't affect Facebook's privacy policies or the types of data it gathers about its users. But the company hopes its 2.2 billion users will have an easier time navigating its complex and often confusing privacy and security settings. Facebook says it's trying to make the controls easier to find and to give users a simpler way to access and download the data it collects on them. Wednesday's announcement follows revelations that a Trump-affiliated consulting firm got data on millions of unsuspecting Facebook users. Facebook is also facing criticism for collecting years of data on call and text histories from Android users. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JAMES WAGNERMARCH 28, 2018
 The Mets’ rookie manager, Mickey Callaway, is, at 42, among the youngest in the job in baseball and part of a growing fraternity whose members are much like him: relatively youthful and inexperienced but molded by contemporary baseball’s focus on analytical information and interpersonal skills. The manager he replaced was, at 68 years old, the oldest in baseball and oversaw a particularly calamitous 2017 season. It stood out, even for a franchise with a history of late-season collapses. Callaway has vowed to pull the Mets into modernity. He has showed the hybrid approach of the modern manager, crunching numbers for big, perhaps unpopular, decisions but delivering them with the ease and aplomb of a straight-shooting old friend. His style was evident during a stretch of spring training in which the Mets’ play was sloppy. Normally upbeat, Callaway, without prompting, was critical of the poor play in his daily news conference. Advertisement What was different, though, was that he had pulled a few veteran players aside to tell them exactly how he felt before telling the rest of the team — and reporters — so they wouldn’t be surprised. Advertisement “It was very honest and very transparent,” right fielder Jay Bruce said. “He wasn’t on the offensive. That’s huge. This isn’t a show for him.” Unlike the Billy Martin-type managers of a past era who screamed authority, managers increasingly are middlemen between larger, more powerful front offices and the clubhouse. They must embrace and enact the data-driven concepts that transformed the sport, while motivating sometimes skeptical players and soothing egos. They are careful team spokesmen. “Today, the manager is not omniscient and not omnipotent,” said Sandy Alderson, the Mets’ general manager, who has watched the position change since his days as an Oakland Athletics executive in the 1980s. In the past, the biggest decisions made by managers involved strategy. With the proliferation of statistical analysis, in-game decisions have become more uniform, and the manager’s focus has shifted. “You’re really not going to get a manager that is a ton better than another because everybody is getting the same information and it’s so accessible,” Callaway said one morning before the start of spring training at his oceanfront home in Santa Rosa Beach, on the Florida Panhandle. “So what is going to set your team apart?” To answer, he pointed to the mentor he worked under as a pitching coach for five years, Terry Francona of the Cleveland Indians, who is considered one of the best managers in baseball for his ability to blend numbers with a deft handling of players and the news media. “You get a guy like Tito who can communicate great, keep players playing hard and create the right culture so you get the maximum out of your players,” Callaway said, referring to Francona by his nickname. “That’s the edge people are looking for.” Advertisement Nowadays, managers face clubhouses full of players with diverse backgrounds and salaries that dwarf their own. Emboldened players challenge them more and talk directly to owners. Sports reporting can be almost instantaneous. Managers collaborate with more employees, from doctors to statistical analysts. “You’re representing the organization as the frontman,” said the Colorado Rockies’ manager, Bud Black, who has been a major league pitcher, a coach and a front office assistant. “You have to be so well versed and wear many hats and have the ability to cross over so many cross-sections of an organization to be effective.” In their previous manager, Terry Collins, the Mets had a fiery baseball lifer for seven seasons who took the team from losing to, at his peak, the 2015 World Series, but whose relationship with the front office and players became strained. In Callaway, Alderson saw a creative and open-minded person who embraced data, and not simply because his bosses wanted him to. During Callaway’s job interview, Alderson said, game strategy was not discussed much. Alderson said he cared more about how Callaway carried himself and arrived at his decisions. “Mickey wants input,” Alderson said. “He wants it from the front office and his coaches. In our case, we’re looking for an opportunity to influence the decision-making. Not to direct it, but to provide whatever we can to support the manager.” It will be up to Callaway, of course, to contend with the Wilpons, the Mets’ ever-present owners, and Alderson’s front office, influences which, at times, were challenging for past managers to deal with. Callaway arrived at the Mets after a winding career that spanned continents. A Memphis native, he left the University of Mississippi to sign with the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays as a seventh-round pick in 1996. He pitched in parts of five major league seasons with three teams. But ineffectiveness on the mound and injuries forced him to pitch in professional baseball leagues in Korea and Taiwan and independent baseball in Texas. His wife, Anna, and later their daughters, Catherine and Madeline, traveled with him. Needing a place to rehabilitate after Tommy John surgery, he served as the interim head baseball coach at Texas A&M International University in 2008 with no previous experience. Advertisement “I was a pretty good self-evaluator as a player, which was probably bad in my case because I wasn’t very good,” he said. “It made me realize that I would make a better coach.” When he became a coach, Callaway had much to draw on. He grew up in baseball’s budding information age. With the Devil Rays, he learned from star players like Fred McGriff and Wade Boggs. With the Anaheim Angels during their World Series-winning 2002 season, Callaway absorbed game strategy from Mike Scioscia, one of baseball’s top managers. With the Texas Rangers, Callaway learned about preparation from Buck Showalter, also among baseball’s best. The biggest influences on Callaway, though, were the Indians and Francona. In 2010, they hired him as the pitching coach at their Class A affiliate in Eastlake, Ohio. He was promoted each year until becoming the major league pitching coach in 2013. In Callaway’s five seasons leading the Indians pitchers, they posted a 3.65 earned run average, fourth best in baseball. They reached the playoffs three times, including the 2016 World Series. They set a major league record with 1,614 strikeouts in 2017. “Mickey is a progressive and open-minded guy who collaborates exceptionally well, whether that’s with an old-school traditional baseball guy, to an athletic trainer, to an analyst upstairs in a front office,” Mike Chernoff, the Indians’ general manager, said. “His ability to integrate all of those things to come up with the best individualized plan for a pitcher is what really took us to the next level.” Callaway’s ideas from his playing days changed after hanging around the analytically focused front office. He once thought a closer needed to pitch the ninth inning to win, but the data persuaded him otherwise. He saw firsthand how the star relief pitcher Andrew Miller was more useful at putting out fires against the heart of an opponent’s lineup regardless of the inning. “You have to use your matchups to your advantage, not to the other team’s advantage,” Callaway said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He spent the off-season telling the Mets’ relief pitchers about the team’s new philosophy, including Jeurys Familia, the former All-Star closer who is eligible for free agency next winter. Teams have increasingly rewarded pitchers who are not closers at contract time, so perhaps it won’t matter much if Familia logs fewer saves. Familia is still expected to receive the bulk of the save chances, but Callaway said he intended to use him, Anthony Swarzak, Jerry Blevins and A. J. Ramos, also a former All-Star closer, interchangeably based on matchups. Advertisement Familia said he had no issue because the strategy made sense, evidenced by Cleveland’s success. He appreciated that Callaway called him not only to explain the change, but twice more to check up on him and his family. “When I got to spring training, it felt like I already knew him,” Familia said in Spanish. Following another trend championed by analytics, Callaway will be vigilant about the perils of letting starters face an opponent’s lineup a third time. To any pitcher unhappy about an early exit, he promised to detail the decision and the ways he can improve. Callaway’s contemporary sensibilities also motivated him to move up the Mets’ most dynamic hitter, Yoenis Cespedes, to second in the lineup because statistics showed it could lead to a few more runs. But as much as Callaway trusts data, he cherishes the personal touch. He admired how Francona played cards with players in his office yet still had difficult conversations with them about their play. (Callaway golfed and fished with Mets players this spring.) He appreciated how Francona empowered his coaches to make decisions. (Callaway has deferred to the pitching coach, Dave Eiland.) He studied how Francona mitigated a potential World Series hangover to enjoy an eight-win improvement the next regular season. In Cleveland, Callaway said the environment pushed him to keep learning. He borrowed ideas on leadership from books and on improving performance from experts. He researched plans before presenting them to players, such as the fastidious starting pitcher Trevor Bauer, knowing they could challenge him by looking up information on their own. “He probably hates me right now, but I hope 10 years from now he looks back and says: ‘Know what? He was tough on me, but he made me a better pitcher, and I respect him for that,’ ” Callaway said. “That’s how you truly care about someone. You have to show players every day that you care.” After accepting the job, Callaway reached out to every player and shared a meal with some, including Noah Syndergaard and Cespedes in Florida. “He’s very relatable and approachable,” Syndergaard said. Callaway gave copies of “Legacy,” by James Kerr, a book about the All Blacks rugby team of New Zealand, to team leaders. He asked players for their input on an array of matters, including scheduling, travel and what rules they wanted to enforce themselves or leave to coaches. He benched the first base prospect Dominic Smith when he arrived late to a morning meeting in spring training. Advertisement “It’s important when you can talk to your manager as a man and not just as a manager,” Ramos said. Callaway shortened spring training practices by at least an hour, reducing wasted time, which he believes leads to injuries, and increasing rest. To emphasize how important a daily routine is to success and health, Callaway held the first meeting for pitchers and catchers in the weight room. Those who don’t follow won’t play. “Mickey is like old meets new,” said Bruce, who got to know Callaway last fall with the Indians. “He’s played enough to know that some things these days are eyewash, but knows the importance of having the information and using it if it makes sense.” In New York, Callaway will have much to juggle. He welcomed the scrutiny and competitiveness of the position, and so far has been accommodating to fans and reporters. The challenges of his rookie season await. “I happen to be right in the middle of everything, and if I didn’t like it, I wouldn’t have accepted the job,” he said. “I could have stayed as pitching coach, sat back and had less pressure. But I’m going to embrace it.” Email James Wagner at james.wagner@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @ByJamesWagner. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Bridging Old School and New Age.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:39 A.M. E.D.T.
 TOKYO —  Four years after popular Tokyo-based bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox was hacked and went bankrupt, the case still casts a shadow over the regulatory regime put in place to protect Japan's thriving cryptocurrency market. Mark Karpeles, the French founder and former CEO of Mt. Gox, says he hopes to recoup the millions lost by his customers in the heist. That's now a possibility, given the surge in bitcoin's value in recent years to some 10 times its earlier value. "What I'm trying to do is to find the best solution," Karpeles said in a recent interview, "because I believe it is my responsibility as CEO of Mt. Gox." Mt. Gox still had about 200,000 bitcoins left in a separate storage location after 850,000 disappeared in 2014. Those holdings are managed by court-appointed trustees who have sold 35,000 bitcoins, raising 44 billion yen ($415 million) in cash to reimburse losses from the exchange's failure. Based on today's prices, the remaining bitcoins are worth far more than the estimated $620 million in earlier losses. Advertisement The trustees deny claims that sale triggered a recent slight drop in highly volatile bitcoin prices. After Mt. Gox collapsed, Karpeles was detained for months before being released on 10 million yen ($94,000) bail while awaiting the outcome of his trial for embezzlement and data manipulation, charges unrelated to the hack. Advertisement Mt. Gox was a wakeup call for Japan, though the relatively strong regulatory regime set up after the bitcoin dealer has not prevented further hacks. Earlier this year the Tokyo-based Coincheck exchange reported a 58-billion yen ($547 million) loss of a cryptocurrency called NEM due to suspected hacking. About half the world's bitcoin trading is estimated to be in yen and there are 16 licensed virtual currency exchanges in Japan, where bitcoin owners alone number 2 million to 3 million. That could grow to 10 million this year, said Yuzo Kano, chief executive for BitFlyer, one of Japan's largest licensed cryptocurrency exchanges. "Japan is now bitcoin's heart, the country that is at the center of its support," said Kano, who helped the government set up its licensing system and other regulations. Kano heads the Japan Blockchain Association and was recently tapped to head a new organization to beef up regulations, working with the Financial Services Agency. Financial regulators worldwide are scrambling to catch up with the boom in cryptocurrencies and Japan is treading carefully, seeking to minimize risks while maneuvering to attain global leadership and nurture entrepreneurship in the new financial technology. Bitcoin has been a legal form of payment in Japan since April 2017, and a handful of major retailers already accept bitcoin payments. Some governments, such as in China and South Korea, have adopted a more cautious approach, while others, like Switzerland and Canada, are wooing the "miners" whose high-powered computers process the algorithms used to create virtual currency tokens. The U.S. falls somewhere in between.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There have been no arrests for the theft at Coincheck, which has acknowledged that it erred in keeping a stash of the digital money in what's known as a "hot wallet," within reach of hackers. Cybersecurity experts say large amounts of virtual currency should be kept offline, in so-called "cold wallets." Advertisement The exchange is reimbursing losses from that heist and strengthening its security. So far, the cases seem to have done little to discourage Japanese, who have turned to stashing yen at home since banks pay near-zero interest rates, from dabbling in cryptocurrencies. Giant billboards and TV ads sing praise of Bitcoin. The warnings about buying at your own risk come in tiny print. A band called Kasotsuka Shojo, or "virtual currency girls," in stereotypical housemaid outfits, literally sings praise of bitcoins: "Let's go mining. Dig right there. I'm going to make money to pay my utility bill." Karpeles is hoping the arrest in July in Greece of a main suspect in the Mt. Gox theft, Alexander Vinnick, will help vanquish any lingering suspicions that he might have pocketed the missing bitcoins. A California grand jury has indicted Vinnick, a Russian, on allegations he used funds from the Mt. Gox hack for money-laundering, though it's unclear whether he'll be extradited to the U.S. or to Russia. Karpeles is not overly optimistic about tracking down the missing bitcoin.  His lawyers have portrayed the young French man as a convenient scapegoat for Japanese authorities eager to find someone to blame for an embarrassingly massive cybercrime. He denied any intention of embezzling funds. His defense team has argued that the money and data he is alleged to have handled improperly were used for company operations or actually belonged to him. Not permitted to leave Japan while still facing trial, Karpeles works at a couple of technology jobs, such as voice-over-internet-protocol and video-game development. Fluent in Japanese after eight years in the country, he appears on YouTube and on a Japanese online streaming video service, offering advice on cryptocurrencies. He likens how cryptocurrencies work, and the precariousness of their value, to a game of musical chairs — with about 10,000 people around each chair. "As long as everyone is dancing, it's fine, but if everyone wants to sit at the same time there won't be enough chairs," he said. ____ Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:24 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Manchester United's decision to establish their first professional women's team will boost the female game across Europe, UEFA's head of marketing activities and sponsorship said on Wednesday. The highest revenue-generating soccer club in the world, according to financial services firm Deloitte, United last week announced that they had applied to enter the second tier of the Women's Super League. The former European champions have until now stood out from Premier League rivals Manchester City, Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool as the only top tier club not to have their own women's side. UEFA's Peter Willems said it was important for the development of women's soccer and the European body's international competitions to have the biggest clubs fully engaged. Advertisement "When big brands in an area are going behind something, that will create momentum," the Belgian told Reuters on Wednesday at a Leaders XX Series think tank event at Chelsea's Stamford Bridge stadium. Advertisement "Manchester United coming in to women’s football, I can only see advantages for all the levels. For English football but also for European football, for Manchester United themselves," he added. "I think you need a few of these heavyweights to push it forward." Willems was speaking before a UEFA women's Champions League quarter-final second leg between Chelsea and French side Montpellier, with the Londoners 2-0 up after the away game. Manchester City were also on course to reach the semi-finals. SPONSORSHIP RIGHTS 'UNBUNDLED' The crowds for women's Champions League games are still a  fraction of those in the men's game, with Chelsea playing their game at AFC Wimbledon's 2,250 capacity stadium in south-west London. While England captain Steph Houghton, who plays for Manchester City, has built up a Twitter following of nearly 100,000 over years, Manchester United player Paul Pogba has close to five million. UEFA has big plans to grow the game, however. The soccer body took the decision last November to 'unbundle' sponsorship and broadcast rights so that women's soccer could stand alone rather than the respective Champions League and European championship being packaged together.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Packaged together is the polite way to say it," said Willems of the old system. "It was more like if you want men’s Euro, you have to take women’s euro. That was not good for the women’s competition but it was also not good for the sponsors because they had something they were really not interested in at the time. "Now we will know the real value of women’s football and have companies with us that are only there for that. I see that as something strong." The plans focus on building the audience as well as participation, and Willems said the initial feedback was positive. Advertisement UEFA were also discussing with clubs a greater centralization of the women's Champions League, along the same lines as the men's which has its own sponsors and advertising, rather than just for the final. "The proposal is that from the 2019/20 season, from the quarter-finals onwards, we would have a centralized broadcast approach, limited sponsor approach," said Willems. That could eventually also set out the quality of stadiums, which could make playing at grounds like Stamford Bridge more likely. "I feel that we are at the tipping point of where things are changing in certain countries... like England," said Willems of a country ranked second in the world in the women's game. (Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Toby Davis) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:14 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Joseph Parker went face to face with Anthony Joshua on Tuesday and said he had yet to decide how he was going to win the unification battle of the undefeated world heavyweight champions. New Zealander Parker (24-0) had no doubt he would do so, however, in front of 80,000 people at Cardiff's Principality Stadium on Saturday. "I feel it's my time," the bespectacled WBO champion, looking sharp in three-piece suit and tie, told a crowded news conference at Sky television's London headquarters. "I'm here to take those belts back. I'm here to be part of history. "I haven't decided how I want to beat him yet. I don't know if it's a knockout or points or a decision. I'll see how I feel on fight night. Those belts are mine." Advertisement The taller Joshua, the WBA, IBF and IBO world heavyweight champion, boasts a 20-0 record and is the overwhelming favourite. Advertisement The 2012 Olympic champion was equally certain he would emerge triumphant, portraying Parker as another step in his own life journey and not even the toughest opponent. That was Ukrainian Wladimir Klitschko, whom he beat at Wembley in April last year. "I'm definitely preparing for a 12-round fight, 110 percent," said the chiselled Briton. "But let's say I've got 20 quid (pounds) in my pocket and I'm looking at Joseph Parker and Anthony Joshua. I believe Anthony Joshua will knock Joseph Parker out for sure." Joshua, who had said on Monday he expected Parker to be overwhelmed, has won all his previous fights by knockout and has boasted that no human can stop him.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Parker, who said he would be surprised if Joshua could catch him, detected a whiff of arrogance and said he was no stepping stone for someone else. "Of course he can be beaten," the New Zealander said. "He's not a god. He's a human being. "I know if I catch him clean, he's out. He looks angry, he looks nervous. I'm not nervous. I'm ready for this, I'm confident." Despite his status as the poster boy of a division whose other big name is American Deontay Wilder, the undefeated WBC champion, Joshua spoke also of the fear of losing. "It keeps me motivated," he said. "One minute you're the man, and the next you're not." With the two contenders remaining polite and respectful several seats apart, it was left to U.S. big fight announcer Michael Buffer to crank up the hype. Advertisement "This Saturday we will take one more step closer to the goal of a fighter being called the undisputed heavyweight world champion," he said. "Champion versus champion, undefeated fighter versus undefeated fighter. Somebody's O has got to go." (Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Ed Osmond) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:15 P.M. E.D.T.
 LOUISVILLE, Ky. —  Chris Mack understands he has big shoes to fill as Louisville's new men's basketball coach. He also knows he has some turbulent times to overcome. Now that Mack has been officially anointed the man in Louisville, it's on his shoulders to lead the Cardinals back to prominence in the wake of several scandal-marred seasons featuring a federal investigation , sex scandal and two absences from the NCAA Tournament. "I know these past few months have been unbelievably difficult," said Mack, who received a seven-year contract. "They say the darkest clouds, you miss it, the brightest lightning bolt. That lightning bolt is coming. "It's not me; it's those" players," said Mack, who spent the last nine seasons at Xavier. "It's time to turn the page and starting building something special once again." Advertisement Mack praised former Cardinals coaches Denny Crum, Rick Pitino and even recent predecessor David Padgett during a news conference Wednesday in Louisville's KFC Yum! Center home arena. His hiring was unanimously approved by the University of Louisville Athletic Association and the Board of Trustees after reports Tuesday Louisville had settled on Mack to lead the program . Advertisement The 48-year-old Ohio native takes over a team that went 22-14 under interim coach David Padgett during a turbulent season in which Louisville became part of a federal corruption probe and missed the NCAA Tournament. Padgett had replaced Pitino, who was fired for cause by the ULAA in October in the investigation's aftermath. Mack is encouraged about the future of the program even as the federal investigation still looms over the school and college basketball. It's unknown if or when the NCAA will examine allegations that an Adidas executive paid the family of former recruit Brian Bowen to attend Louisville. Athletic director Vince Tyra said Monday that he didn't expect updates any time soon, but Mack said it didn't affect his decision. "I was told enough about it," Mack said. "A lot of programs have been touched, and it'll be interesting to see how it plays out. If it were a situation that would've scared me off, I would've said something to Vince."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Standing in a corner to Mack's right as he spoke were a group of Louisville players that included juniors Ray Spalding and Deng Adel, both of whom plan to work out with NBA clubs before deciding whether to return to school. The players in attendance applauded the new coach and his family as they entered the news conference and appeared relieved to know someone will be in charge for a while following a lot of change since September. "It's like, 'Whoo!'" freshman forward Malik Williams said. "It feels good, just going through everything this year and knowing we've got somebody locked in and solid for next year. It's just real good." On Wednesday, the newly promoted Tyra was happy to announce his first major hire and fulfill last week's vow to find a top-flight coach to lead what he considers an elite program. Mack brings an impressive record southwest down the Ohio River, aiming to continue his success with the Cardinals and lead them back into national contention. Mack, 48, was 215-97 with eight NCAA appearances, four Sweet 16s and an Elite Eight berth at Xavier. The Musketeers were 29-6 this past season and earned their first-ever No. 1 NCAA Tournament seeding, but were upset 75-70 in the second round by Florida State. Advertisement His name soon surfaced after that loss as the favorite for the Louisville job that's now his. The Cardinals' third coach since September now must lead them back to the Big Dance and past two recent incidents — including an escort scandal that resulted in NCAA sanctions culminating in the vacation of 123 wins and their 2013 national championship and 2012 Final Four banners. "This person has to replace two lost banners," Tyra said, looking toward Mack, "and he's sitting on this stage." ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:38 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW DELHI —  India on Wednesday allowed the import of used goods for repair and refurbishing on condition that the imported items are  exported - a move that could entice companies like smartphone maker Apple further into the Indian market. New Delhi has changed its policy at a time when the United States and its biggest trading partner China are on the brink of a trade war, with President Donald Trump announcing plans to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion (£42.7 billion) worth of Chinese goods. China plans to impose additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports, mainly in response to Washington's import tariffs on steel and aluminium. The sparring has cast a spotlight on U.S. firms such as Apple, which assemble the majority of their products in China for export to other countries. Electrical goods and tech gadgets are the largest U.S. import items from China. Advertisement "Trump's trade war with China could be a win for India," said Neil Shah, partner at tech research firm Counterpoint. Advertisement China is currently among the top destinations for repair and refurbishment of electronic devices. India wants waste generated during the repair and refurbishing of the imported items to be treated in line with local laws including health, safety and environment norms, a government order issued on Wednesday said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The South Asian nation's new policy on import of used goods could help smartphone makers such as Apple to cut cost as they battle rising manufacturing and labour costs in China, where a bulk of its pricey iPhones are made. "(New Delhi's policy change) will give someone like Apple an opportunity to tap India's cheap talent for repairing phones and could potentially turn India into a global export hub for refurbished devices," said Shah. Apple has been in talks with the Indian government for months, seeking tax breaks and incentives to expand its operations in the country. Apple did not immediately reply to a request for comment. (Reporting by Sankalp Phartiyal and Nidhi Verma; Editing by Richard Balmforth) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:32 P.M. E.D.T.
 CAIRO —  Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi is on course for a landslide election victory although there was little sign he had achieved the high turnout he sought, according to early estimates after polls closed in a three-day election. Some voters said they had received payments and other inducements to cast their ballots. But with some private television stations reporting that he could achieve a vote share of 95 percent or more, Sisi issued a defiant statement expressing pride at the way Egyptians had conducted themselves during the election. "The voice of the Egyptian masses will undoubtedly bear witness to the fact that our nation's will imposes itself with a force that knows no weakness," Sisi said on Twitter. "The scenes of Egyptians at polling stations will remain a point of pride and honour for me and undoubted proof of the greatness of our nation that has offered the blood of its greatest sons so that we can together cross into the future." Advertisement Hours before polls closed, the electoral commission issued a last-minute call for people to vote, hoping to boost the turnout figure that Sisi regards as vital to legitimising his victory. Advertisement Lasheen Ibrahim, head of the national election commission, told Egyptians: "Declare to the world that Egypt always makes history, for you are the Pharaohs, the makers of the civilization that amazed the world." Voting was extended by one hour, the state news agency MENA reported. Sisi is running almost unchallenged after the other serious candidates were either arrested or intimidated, making turnout the main measure of his popularity with Egyptians who are widely expected to award him a second four-year term. His only challenger is Moussa Mostafa Moussa, a Sisi supporter widely seen as a dummy candidate. TURNOUT On the first two days of voting, turnout was about 21 percent, according to two sources monitoring the election. No overall figure for Wednesday was immediately available. A  Western diplomat said that late on Tuesday, turnout was between 15 and 20 percent, with around 30 percent in some centres on Wednesday. In the city of Alexandria, an election observer said three polling stations had turnouts of 26.6, 32, and 33.75 percent by late Wednesday afternoon. At the last election in 2014, turnout was 47 percent, although Sisi won 97 percent of the overall vote. Official results are due on April 2. Advertisement Sisi said he wanted more opponents to stand, and insisted he had nothing to do with opposition candidates pulling out. The election commission had pledged the vote would be free and fair.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In Cairo, some voters found it hard to voice enthusiasm. Mostafa Abdel Kader, a 35-year-old delivery man, expressed anger at some Sisi loyalists distributing food to persuade people to cast their ballots, saying he would not vote "for a box of food". Hussain al-Sayed, a 53-year-old tailor, did vote, although without much enthusiasm. "Sisi will win anyway, there is no one else." Sisi, who led the military overthrow of freely-elected Islamist President Mohamed Mursi in 2013, has promised security and stability and to revive the economy after unrest that followed a 2011 popular uprising. INCENTIVES Some voters interviewed by Reuters over the first two days of polling said they had been offered money, boxes of food, and services to cast their ballots. "I just went to vote so I can dip my finger in the paint and took the 50 pounds ($3)," a woman in Cairo's working-class Ward estate said, declining to give her name. Another group of women, who also declined to be named, said they had been promised bags of food containing rice and vegetable oil in exchange for votes. The women did not say who exactly had given them money or bags of goods. Managers at a government financial institution gave employees half of Monday off and ordered them to vote, one employee told Reuters. Employees at the institution were told to "not come back without ink on their fingers" and had their hands inspected the next day, the employee said. Asked for comment, the presidency spokesman said this was not a matter for the presidency to address and referred Reuters to the National Election Commission and spokespeople for the presidential campaigns. Advertisement Officials at the election commission and the government's foreign press centre did not respond to calls and Whatsapp messages requesting comment. The national election commission had said those who did not vote could be fined 500 Egyptian pounds ($28). Some people needed no inducement to vote. Noha al-Nemr, in Cairo's middle-class Mohandiseen district, said: "I voted for Sisi of course, because it's enough that because of him, my family and I live in safety - even if there's hardship." (Writing by John Davison; Editing by Giles Elgood) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:36 P.M. E.D.T.
 LOS ANGELES —  Viewers were eager to see ABC's reboot of "Roseanne," with an estimated 18.4 million tuning in to its debut. The updated sitcom starring Roseanne Barr returned Tuesday, more than two decades after the original ended its hit run. The hour-long debut episode was watched by 10 percent more viewers than saw the May 1997 finale of ABC's original "Roseanne." That's impressive, given the explosion of alternate platforms and series since then and compared to other successful sitcom reboots. NBC's "Will & Grace," for example, returned this season with its original 1998-2006 cast to a debut audience of 10.1 million viewers and was quickly renewed for a second and then a third season. Advertisement For its freshman year, NBC's show is averaging 5.7 million people watching episodes on the day they air. But with the time-shifting viewership that networks are focusing on, its audience averages 9 million per episode over a seven-day period. Advertisement Another promising sign for "Roseanne" was the estimated audience growth from the first half-hour (18 million) to the second (18.9 million), a sign that viewers liked what they saw. Future episodes are a half-hour, airing at 8 p.m. EDT Tuesday. The revival had a coat-tail effect for the ABC shows that followed, significantly boosting viewership for "black-ish" and helping to launch the new Jenna Fischer-Oliver Hudson comedy "Splitting Up Together."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Barr is back as the matriarch of the Conner family, with other returning cast mates including John Goodman, Laurie Metcalf, Sara Gilbert, Michael Fishman and Lecy Goranson. The family is grappling with new sets of personal issues and political realities: Roseanne embraces President Donald Trump, her sister Jackie (Metcalf) is a staunch opponent, and the two are at odds. Barr says she thought it was important to show how the Conners deal with the same issues that many American families currently face. "It shows people's different opinions and how they resolve them," Barr, who counts herself as a Trump supporter, said at the show's New York premiere Monday. "I saw it happening in all the families I know, so I thought, 'Well this is, you know, it's good, hopefully it will get people talking to each other.'" ___ Lynn Elber can be reached at lelber@ap.org and on Twitter at http://twitter.com/lynnelber. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Reuters NEW YORK — Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg plans to testify before U.S. Congress, a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday, as he bows to pressure from lawmakers insisting he explain how 50 million users' data ended up in the hands of a political consultancy. Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about the company's privacy practices after a whistleblower said consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.  Facebook said the company had received invitations to testify before Congress and that they were talking to legislators. Facebook shares closed down 4.9 percent on Tuesday and have fallen almost 18 percent since March 16, when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channelled to Cambridge Analytica, which was hired by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.  The tech sector is down 5.2 percent for March and on track for its worst month since April 2016. The data breach has raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers and lead to tougher regulation.  House Energy and Commerce Committee spokeswoman Elena Hernandez said "The committee is continuing to work with Facebook to determine a day and time for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify". On the same day, Zuckerberg turned down British lawmakers' invitations to explain to a British parliamentary committee what went wrong. The company said it would instead send one of his deputies, suggesting that Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer or Chief Product Officer Chris Cox had the expertise to answer questions on the complex subject.  The head of the committee called Zuckerberg's decision "astonishing" and urged him to think again. Christopher Wylie, the whistleblower who once worked at Cambridge Analytica, said on Monday that Canadian company AggregateIQ had developed the software that used the algorithms from the Facebook data to target Republican voters in the 2016 U.S. election. AggregateIQ did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wylie's remarks. Cambridge Analytica said it had not shared any of the Facebook profile data with AggregateIQ. Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in Trump's campaign, and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.  In full-page advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers this week Zuckerberg said the app built by a university researcher "leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014".  He apologised last week for the mistakes the company had made and promised to restrict developers' access to user information as part of a plan to protect privacy. The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee said on Monday it had invited Zuckerberg, as well as the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy. The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee had already formally asked Zuckerberg to appear at a congressional hearing.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission took the unusual step of announcing on Monday that it had opened an investigation into the company - which it generally only does in cases of great public interest - citing media reports that raise what it called "substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook."  (Writing by Susan Thomas; Editing by James Dalgleish) Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:53 A.M. E.D.T.
 GENEVA —  The scandal over data privacy that is causing a headache for Facebook Inc shows just one aspect of the huge task of preparing the world for e-commerce, the United Nations trade and development agency UNCTAD said on Wednesday. Facebook has faced a global outcry and its shares have slid in value after a whistleblower said data from millions of users was improperly harvested by consultancy Cambridge Analytica to target U.S. and British voters. "The current debate about Facebook and data privacy vividly illustrates that most countries are ill-prepared for the digital economy," UNCTAD Secretary-General Mukhisa Kituyi said in a statement. Data privacy is just one of many boxes that national regulators need to tick if they hope to get a handle on e-commerce, UNCTAD's head of internet and computer technology analysis Torbjörn Fredriksson told a news conference. Advertisement Other issues include legal questions related to e-transactions and e-signatures, consumer protection online, data protection, cybercrime, taxation and domain names. Advertisement "Then you look at trade logistics, especially to try to address what we call the tsunami of parcels, when people start ordering from online platforms instead of going to the retail shop that has bought everything in bulk," he said. In developing countries, internet purchases are still mainly paid for with cash on delivery, and central banks and finance ministries need to help ensure access to online payment systems, Fredriksson added. But most developing countries are still unclear about whose job it is to coordinate e-commerce, he said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Without online payments, local firms would struggle to export on international e-commerce platforms such as Amazon and Alibaba, while the flood of imports risks creating a trade imbalance. "There is some concern that ... there is a risk of concentration of markets among the big platforms," Fredriksson said, adding that UNCTAD was working on ways to address the problem. Although rich countries are thinking about how they need to adapt, poorer countries are largely flying blind, with no data for example on e-commerce circumventing national trade rules, which could help the traffic in counterfeit goods. "There are concerns about jobs that may be lost, taxation, customs revenue, there's a whole range of issues that are challenges more than opportunities perhaps," Fredriksson said. "Governments are increasingly looking at it, but whether they are looking at it enough is another issue." (Reporting by Tom Miles; Editing by Catherine Evans) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 8:20 P.M. E.D.T.
 SEOUL —  South Korea's economy marked its worst quarterly performance since 2008 in October-December as weakness in car exports and construction overshadowed strength in consumption and public spending, revised central bank data showed on Wednesday. Gross domestic product declined 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, matching advance estimates. That compared to a revised 1.5 percent rise in the third quarter of 2017 and was a big step down from the blistering pace seen in the first half of last year. Construction investment fell by 2.3 percent on-quarter, while private spending and government expenditure increased 1.0 percent and 0.5 percent from three months earlier, respectively. From a year earlier, South Korea's economy grew 2.8 percent in the October-December period, the Bank of Korea data showed, missing the advance estimate of 3 percent. Advertisement The result is a disappointment for the bank, which raised its base rate by 25 basis points in November, the first tightening in six years. Advertisement Inflation will have to pick up considerably before the central bank takes policy interest rates higher.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Bank of Korea left its key interest rate unchanged in February, as expected, noting muted inflationary pressures and showing caution amid fears of a global trade war. The bank expects the economy to expand by 3 percent this year, but that estimate is subject to global demand for South Korean memory chips and other manufactured goods in the face of a feared trade war between the United States and China. "Domestic demand will probably shine this year and exports will continue their moderate growth," said Lee Sang-jae, economist at Eugene Investment and Securities, noting that increased public spending to create jobs should boost private consumption. The revised data showed the economy grew by 3.1 percent over the whole of last year, the fastest expansion since it grew 3.3 percent in 2014. (Reporting by Cynthia Kim, Dahee Kim; Editing by Eric Meijer) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By STACY COWLEYMARCH 28, 2018
 Equifax on Wednesday named Mark Begor, a private equity executive who once led General Electric’s credit card business, as its new chief executive. Mr. Begor, 59, takes over for Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., who has filled the role on an interim basis since September, when Richard F. Smith stepped down after a data breach exposed sensitive personal information, including Social Security numbers, of 148 million people. Mr. Begor, a managing director at the private equity firm Warburg Pincus, will start at Equifax on April 16. He is also a member of the board at the credit-scoring company FICO, a position he plans to give up before joining Equifax. Equifax said it would give Mr. Begor stock and options valued at $17 million this year and an annual salary and bonus of up to $4.5 million. Advertisement Mr. Barros will stay through the transition and retire early next year, Equifax said. Equifax, which is based in Atlanta, is one of the country’s so-called big three credit reporting bureaus. It maintains files on about 220 million Americans.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After the data breach — and a response by the company that was widely criticized as inadequate — Equifax has continued to stumble. In January, an app it released that was meant to let people lock their credit files was riddled with glitches. This month, a former company executive was charged with insider trading for selling Equifax shares after the breach but before it was publicly disclosed. “The team has made meaningful progress in the last several months to address a number of well-publicized issues,” Mr. Begor said in a statement. “I will prioritize continuing our team’s efforts to communicate transparently and restore confidence with consumers, customers, shareholders and policymakers.” Advertisement Mr. Begor spent 35 years at General Electric, where his duties included leading the conglomerate’s real-estate investment and energy management units. For nine years, he was president and chief executive of the company’s consumer credit business, which was later spun off as Synchrony Financial. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Private Equity Executive Chosen to Lead Equifax.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:45 A.M. E.D.T.
 ATHENS, Greece —  In a deal worth up to $5 billion, Greek airline Aegean said Wednesday it will buy 30 new Airbus aircraft, with the option of an additional 12, to upgrade its fleet as the country expects to break tourism records. Aegean said it was signing a memorandum of understanding with Airbus for 30 of the A320neo and A321neo aircraft. Along with the option for the additional dozen, the agreement is worth $5 billion at list prices, making it the largest private investment in Greece, the airline said. Airlines often negotiate prices that are lower than the list price. The signing of the final purchase agreement is expected in June. "It's a big moment for Aegean ... and it's happening despite the (Greek) financial crisis and despite the challenges of international competition. Those are the conditions we grew in," said Eftichios Vassilakis, the airline's vice chairman. Greece is expecting another record tourism year in 2018, after the country received 27 million visitors in 2017, according to Bank of Greece data. The new aircraft have a choice of two engines, either from CFM International or Pratt and Whitney. The airline said it was in talks with both manufacturers and will make a decision on the engines by July. The 19-year-old Star Alliance carrier currently has a fleet of 58 planes and will fly to around 80 destinations this year, combined with its subsidiary, Olympic Air. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 

 Kevin Roose
 
 
THE SHIFT
MARCH 28, 2018
 I don’t need to tell you that something is wrong with social media. You’ve probably experienced it yourself. Maybe it’s the way you feel while scrolling through your Twitter feed — anxious, twitchy, a little world weary — or your unease when you see a child watching YouTube videos, knowing she’s just a few algorithmic nudges away from a rabbit hole filled with lunatic conspiracies and gore. Or maybe it was this month’s Facebook privacy scandal, which reminded you that you’ve entrusted the most intimate parts of your digital life to a profit-maximizing surveillance machine. Our growing discomfort with our largest social platforms is reflected in polls. One recently conducted by Axios and SurveyMonkey found that all three of the major social media companies — Facebook, Twitter and Google, which shares a parent company with YouTube — are significantly less popular with Americans than they were five months ago. (And Americans might be the lucky ones. Outside the United States, social media is fueling real-world violence and empowering autocrats, often with much less oversight.) But it would be a mistake to throw up our hands and assume that it has to be this way. The original dream of social media — producing healthy discussions, unlocking new forms of creativity, connecting people to others with similar interests — shouldn’t be discarded because of the failures of the current market leaders. And lots of important things still happen on even the most flawed networks. The West Virginia teachers’ strike and last weekend’s March for Our Lives, for example, were largely organized on Facebook and Twitter. The primary problem with today’s social networks is that they’re already too big, and are trapped inside a market-based system that forces them to keep growing. Facebook can’t stop monetizing our personal data for the same reason that Starbucks can’t stop selling coffee — it’s the heart of the enterprise. Advertisement Many of the fixes being proposed involve regulation. The Honest Ads Act, a bill in the Senate, would require greater transparency for online political ads. The European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, which goes into effect in May, aims to give users greater control of their digital information trails. Advertisement But these efforts don’t touch the underlying problems, and in fact could make it harder for start-ups to compete with the giants. If we’re really serious about changing how social networks operate, far more radical interventions are required. Here are three possible ways to rescue social media from the market-based pressures that got us here. In their book “New Power,” which comes out next week, Jeremy Heimans and Henry Timms write about the struggle between centralized, top-down institutions, which represent “old power,” and decentralized, bottom-up movements, which represent “new power.” Facebook, they write, is an example of a new power institution that serves old power interests. It harvests the creative output of billions of people and turns it into a giant, centralized enterprise, with most users sharing none of the economic value they create and getting no say in the platform’s governance. Instead, the authors ask, what if a social network was truly run by its users? “If you’re contributing economic value to something of this much social consequence, you should share in the value you’re creating,” Mr. Heimans told me. Nathan Schneider, a professor of media studies at the University of Colorado, had a similar idea in 2016, when he proposed that Twitter users band together to buy the platform from its shareholders and convert it into a user-run collective, similar to the way a local credit union is run. People who made valuable contributions to the network, such as employees and power users, would receive bigger stakes and more voting power. And users would have a seat at the table for major decisions about the platform’s operations. It’s exceedingly unlikely that Mark Zuckerberg, who has fought hard to keep control of Facebook, will ever convert the company into a user-owned and run collective. But Mr. Schneider believes that giving more control to responsible users could help restore trust in the network, and signal the kind of values Mr. Zuckerberg says he wants Facebook to represent. The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “He could show that he takes democracy seriously enough to start with his own baby,” Mr. Schneider said. Advertisement Another radical approach would be to make social networks work more like email — so that independent apps could seamlessly work together with one another, across a common protocol. Instead of one big Facebook, a federated social network would look like clusters of independent nodes — Mombook and Athletebook and Gamerbook — all of which could be plugged into the umbrella network when it made sense. Rather than requiring a one-size-fits-all set of policies that apply to billions of users, these nodes could be designed to reflect users’ priorities. (A network for privacy hawks and one for open-sharing maximalists could have different data-retention rules, and a network for L.G.B.T. users and one for evangelical pastors could have different hate speech rules.) If a node became too toxic, it could be removed without shutting down the entire network. “Email is the most resilient social network on the internet,” Mr. Schneider said, “and the thing that allows it to adapt is that it’s an open protocol, and people build apps on top of it, and we evolve how we use it.” Versions of this kind of network already exist. Mastodon, a decentralized Twitter-like social network, has gotten more than a million registered users since its debut in 2016. And various social networks based on the blockchain — the ledger system that underlies virtual currencies like Bitcoin — have sprung up in recent months. To be sure, decentralized networks have their own problems. They’re messy to administer, and they can still be gamed by bad actors. They can also fall prey to the same kind of privacy issues that Facebook is being criticized for. (In fact, part of the reason users are angry at Facebook right now is that the company’s data infrastructure was too open, and made it overly simple for third-party app developers to take user information outside Facebook.) None of this is a panacea. But experimenting with more decentralized models could give social media users a sense that platforms represented their interests, rather than those of a faceless corporation. A single friend of mine once remarked that the major difference among dating apps like OKCupid, Tinder and Bumble wasn’t the way they were designed or the companies behind them — it was how long they had existed. Advertisement New apps, she said, were more likely to attract interesting and smart people who were actually looking for dates. Older apps, by contrast, were eventually overrun with creeps and predators, no matter how well built they were. A similar theory might apply to social networks. Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram and Snapchat all had plenty of issues in their early years, but they were by and large cleaner, with fewer types of exploitation and malicious behavior. Today, the enormous size and influence of these platforms have made them irresistible honey pots for bad actors, and many of our “social graphs” — Facebook’s term for the webs of digital connections we create — are clogged with years’ worth of clutter. In a blog post last year, the venture capitalist Hunter Walk proposed an interesting idea: a legally mandated “start over” button that, when pressed, would allow users of social networks to delete all their data, clear out their feeds and friend lists, and begin with a fresh account. I’d go even further, and suggest that social networks give their users an automatic “self-cleaning” option, which would regularly clear their profiles of apps they no longer used, friendships and followers they no longer interacted with, and data they no longer needed to store. If these tools were enabled, users would need to take affirmative action if they didn’t want their information to disappear after a certain number of months or years. Making social graphs temporary, rather than preserving them forever by default, would undoubtedly be bad for most social networks’ business models. But it could create new and healthy norms around privacy and data hygiene, and it would keep problems from piling up as networks get older and more crowded. It might even recapture some of the magic of the original social networks, when things were fresh and fascinating, and not quite so scary. An earlier version of this article misstated the number of registered users on Mastodon. It is more than a million, not more than 140,000. Email Kevin Roose at kevin.roose@nytimes.com, or follow him on Facebook at facebook.com/kevinroose and on Twitter: @kevinroose. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Its Ideals Tainted, Can Social Media Shine Again?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:47 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Luxury U.S. automaker brands Cadillac and Lincoln both unveiled SUV models this week at the New York auto show to meet rising American demand, but also are keeping one eye on a growing Chinese appetite for the same vehicles, executives said. Cadillac, General Motors Co's luxury division, unveiled the XT4, a sport crossover, at the New York auto show on Tuesday. Johan de Nysschen, who heads up the division, told Reuters on Wednesday that Cadillac is still in discussions with its Chinese joint venture partner SAIC Motor Corp on rolling out the XT4 in that market, but he is optimistic that it will happen. "The (Chinese) volume potential played an important role in ensuring the financial feasibility for the investment in this (vehicle) program," de Nysschen said. Advertisement After the XT4, Cadillac plans a larger SUV with three rows of seats in 2019. China is the world's largest auto market and accounts for more than half of Cadillac's sales. And as in the United States, more consumers in China are opting for SUVs instead of sedans. But Cadillac's de Nysschen said overall, the number of sedans should continue to grow in China. Advertisement "Our data indicate that by 2025, despite a contracting market share, the luxury sedan segment will be as big as the total Chinese luxury market today," he said. "The (Chinese) market will almost treble over the next 10 years, so it's massively important to Cadillac."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. GM Chief Executive Mary Barra on Wednesday told investors at a conference on the sidelines of the New York show that selling more vehicles, such as the XT4, in China should drive "a 100 percent increase in Cadillac profitability over the next four years." Separately, Ford Motor Co's Lincoln brand unveiled a three-row mid-size SUV at the auto show on Wednesday. Consumers can buy the Aviator in a hybrid version, which Joy Falotico, head of the Lincoln division, said is aimed in part at the Chinese market with its looming government mandates for electric vehicles. Chinese buyers "may have their parents in the back seat and they deserve the same stature as children," Falotico said. "The fact that it’s a comfortable ride is a very important feature." (Reporting By Nick Carey; editing by Diane Craft) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:51 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Tesla Inc shares fell sharply again on Wednesday, reeling from a credit downgrade of the electric car maker by Moody's Investors Service, federal probes of a fatal crash and concerns about Model 3 production. Shares tumbled 9 percent before ending down 7.7 percent at $257.78. On Tuesday, Tesla tumbled 8.2 percent to its lowest close in almost a year after the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) opened a field investigation into a fatal crash and vehicle fire in California on March 23. On Wednesday, a second federal regulator, the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA), said it was sending a team to California to investigate the crash. Late on Tuesday, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Tesla’s credit rating to B3 from B2, citing "the significant shortfall in the production rate of the company’s Model 3 electric vehicle.” It also noted “liquidity pressures due to its large negative free cash flow and the pending maturities of convertible bonds.” Advertisement Tesla has $230 million in convertible bonds maturing in November 2018 and $920 million in March 2019. Advertisement Moody’s said its negative outlook “reflects the likelihood that Tesla will have to undertake a large, near-term capital raise in order to refund maturing obligations and avoid a liquidity shortfall.” It said Tesla's weekly production target is now 2,500 Model 3 vehicles by the end of March, down sharply from its year-earlier target of 5,000 per week by the end of 2017. Tesla's weekly target for the end of June is 5,000. Tesla declined to comment on the downgrade. The company plans to provide an update on Model 3 production next week.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Tesla shares have experienced big swings in the past, as worries about losses have vied with enthusiasm for Chief Executive Elon Musk's ambitious plans. The sell-off has left Tesla's stock market value at $44 billion, below General Motors Co's $49 billion. Palo Alto, California-based Tesla has at times had a larger market value than GM, the largest U.S. automaker by vehicle sales. Since the end of February, the median analyst price target for Tesla has dipped by $10 to $356, about 37 percent higher than Wednesday's price, according to Thomson Reuters data. Nomura Securities analyst Romit Shah has the highest Tesla price target, $500, or nearly double the current price. All the targets were set before the March 23 crash. In last week’s accident in which the Tesla struck a highway median, it was unclear if the vehicle’s automated control system called Autopilot was driving, the NTSB and police said. The 38-year-old driver of the Tesla died at a nearby hospital shortly after the crash. Late Tuesday, Tesla said in a blog post it does "not yet know what happened in the moments leading up to the crash," but added that data shows Tesla owners have driven the same stretch of highway with Autopilot engaged "roughly 85,000 times ... and there has never been an accident that we know of." The statement did not say if the crashed vehicle was in Autopilot mode. (Reporting by David Shepardson in Washington and Alexandria Sage and Noel Randewich in San Francisco; Editing by Dan Grebler and David Gregorio) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:36 P.M. E.D.T.
 ___ Zuckerberg plans to testify before Congress NEW YORK (AP) — Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg plans to testify before Congress about the company's privacy practices in coming weeks, according to a person familiar with the matter. This person spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. Zuckerberg is aware there is intense pressure on him to testify, this person says. ___ Playboy leaves Facebook over privacy NEW YORK (AP) — Playboy Enterprises says it's pulling its Facebook presence as the privacy scandal enveloping the social media service continues to grow. Playboy says it's been difficult anyway to "express our values" because of Facebook's strict content and policy guidelines, which include restrictions on nudity. Playboy says the alleged data mismanagement is the last straw. ___ California pot shops decry online ads for illegal sellers LOS ANGELES (AP) — California regulators have warned the operators of an online directory for marijuana shops to stop advertising pot sellers that are operating outside the law. Regulators sent a letter to the website, Weedmaps, warning the company it could face criminal penalties. Weedmaps executives say the website doesn't fall under state authority and is shielded by provisions in federal law. A spokesman for California's cannabis agency says state regulators are discussing appropriate next steps. ___ Small business dilemma: Raise prices or absorb inflation? NEW YORK (AP) — While inflation overall has been tame the past few years, many small businesses nonetheless have seen their costs rise, especially for labor and energy. And economists believe we'll see an acceleration of price increases this year. That will put more pressure on small businesses that don't have the big revenue cushions larger companies do to help absorb costs. Economists say many will be forced to pass on higher costs to customers — something many business owners have been reluctant to do. Advertisement ___ Tesla: Crash was worsened by missing freeway barrier shield DETROIT (AP) — Tesla says a fatal crash on a Silicon Valley freeway involving an electric SUV was made more severe by a highway barrier with a damaged or missing piece designed to protect drivers. The company also says on its website that it doesn't know what caused the crash or whether the Model X SUV was operating on its semi-autonomous "Autopilot" system. Advertisement ___ US economic growth in Q4 revised up to 2.9 percent rate WASHINGTON (AP) — The U.S. economy grew at a solid 2.9 percent annual rate in the final three months of last year, a sharp upward revision that caps three quarters of the fastest growth in more than a decade. The Trump administration is hoping the economy will accelerate further this year, aided by sizable tax cuts and increased government spending. ___ Stocks veering between gains and losses in afternoon trade U.S. stock indexes are veering between gains and losses as the recent run of choppy trading continues. Technology companies, which led a steep decline a day earlier, are weighing on the market the most. Amazon, Netflix and other consumer-focused companies are also down, while energy stocks decline in tandem with oil prices. Drugstore chains and health care stocks are headed higher.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ___ Judge allows Trump foreign gifts case to proceed WASHINGTON (AP) — A federal judge is allowing the state of Maryland and the District of Columbia to proceed in a lawsuit accusing President Donald Trump of accepting unconstitutional gifts from foreign interests. But U.S. District Judge Peter J. Messitte's ruling Wednesday limits the case to the president's involvement with the Trump International Hotel in Washington. ___ New service aims to follow users across multiple devices NEW YORK (AP) — Some 60 companies including such leading brands as Subway, Sprint and the NFL are joining forces to help each other follow you around online. Adobe, the organizer, says the new initiative will help companies offer more personalized experiences and make ads less annoying. But it comes in an environment of heightened privacy sensitivities after reports that Facebook allowed a political consulting firm to harvest data on millions of Facebook users to influence elections. ___ On the Money: Robots predict how you'll spend your points NEW YORK (AP) — A growing number of credit card companies are using artificial intelligence software to convince customers to use their credit card points in a certain way, be it redeeming their points for travel, dining, shopping or gift cards, with the goal of keeping those customers spending more and loyal to their cards. ___ Equifax hires financial executive Mark Begor as new CEO NEW YORK (AP) — Equifax tapped longtime financial industry executive Mark Begor as its new permanent CEO, the company said Wednesday, as Equifax continues to try to recover from fallout surrounding the company's massive data breach. The 59-year-old Begor will take over from Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., who became interim CEO in September when Richard Smith stepped down from the post. ___ The benchmark S&P 500 index lost 7.62 points, or 0.3 percent, at 2,605. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 9.29 points, or 0.04 percent, to 23,848.42. Benchmark U.S. crude lost 87 cents, or 1.3 percent, to settle at $64.38 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 58 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $69.53 per barrel in London. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:51 A.M. E.D.T.
 SEATTLE —  Take two tablets and a selfie? Your doctor's orders may one day include a smartphone video to make sure you took your medicine. Smartphone apps that monitor pill-taking are now available, and researchers are testing how well they work when medication matters. Experts praise the efficiency, but some say the technology raises privacy and data security concerns. Selfie medicine works like this: Open an app on your phone, show your pills, put them in your mouth and swallow. Don't forget to show your empty mouth to the camera to prove today's dose is on its way. Then upload the video proof to the clinic. Fans say the technology addresses a big problem: About half of drugs for chronic conditions aren't taken as prescribed because of cost, side effects or patient forgetfulness. Advertisement With treatment for opioid addiction, a skipped dose can mean a dangerous relapse. The National Institute on Drug Abuse is funding research to tailor a smartphone app for those patients and see if they'll use it. Advertisement "If we can keep patients engaged, we can keep them in treatment longer," said lead researcher Dr. Judith Tsui of the University of Washington School of Medicine in Seattle. The next phase of her research will compare a group of patients who use the monitoring app called emocha (ee-MOH-kuh) with those who don't to see if there's a difference. At one Tennessee treatment center, some patients with opioid addiction are already using the app to upload selfies of their daily dose and answer questions about how they're doing. "Every time they sign on, it allows us to capture data. Are they having cravings? Suicidal tendencies?" said Scott Olson, CEO of Dallas-based Pathway Healthcare, which is trying the app at its Jackson, Tennessee, site. "Maybe a phone call from a counselor might make the difference between staying clean and a relapse." Olson thinks insurers will pay for the service with more evidence. For monitoring tuberculosis patients, health departments pay roughly $35 to $50 per patient each month for systems that include encrypted data storage. A small health department might pay as little as $500 a month. The idea of watching someone take their medicine — called directly observed therapy or DOT — has roots in tuberculosis where one person's forgetfulness can be serious for everyone. If patients don't take all their antibiotics, their infectious TB germs can get stronger, developing drug resistance and endangering the broader community. But taking a handful of pills daily for up to a year is difficult, so public health departments traditionally sent workers to people's homes and workplaces to watch them take their doses. Today, many TB patients prefer remote monitoring. Nurses like it too. Advertisement Nurse Peggy Cooley has used Skype for years to chat live with patients taking TB medicine. "We can accomplish in a two-minute phone call something that might have taken an hour to do and most of that hour was in the car," said Cooley, who works for the Tacoma-Pierce County Health Department in Washington state.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The new uploaded selfies don't need an appointment. They are a daily routine for many tuberculosis patients in Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Houston, where savings on mileage and worker time amounted to $100,000 in a recent year. In Boston, Albuquerque and five other cities, researchers are studying whether the technology works for hepatitis C, a blood-borne virus that's surging among a new generation of injection drug users. New drugs for hepatitis C can cure, but they're expensive — $75,000 for a 12-week course of treatment — so insurers want to make sure patients take them. "I think it holds a lot of promise," said researcher Dr. Alain Litwin of University of South Carolina School of Medicine, who's testing whether patients do better when someone watches them take their pills. What's next? An insurer in Maryland plans to use the technology in diabetes and high blood pressure to make sure Medicare and Medicaid patients take their medicine. Startups selling the apps say they could be used by faraway adult children monitoring an elderly parent's daily pill-taking. Experts worry about privacy, data security and penalties for poor pill-taking. "That's the biggest ick factor," said Carolyn Neuhaus, a medical ethicist at the Hastings Center in New York. "You can imagine a program where benefits are tied to compliance and the insurer says, 'We won't pay for medication anymore unless you're taking it correctly.'" Globally, the rapid spread of smartphones creates an opportunity to eradicate TB, say the app developers. But eliminating TB may take simpler, cheaper technologies that can be scaled for millions of cases, said Dr. Daniel Chin, who leads TB efforts for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The group supports research in China and India on two homegrown technologies. China's tool, about the size of a child's shoebox, reminds patients to take their pills and saves data for review. In India, the government favors a blister pill pack printed with phone numbers; a patient punches out a daily pill, then calls the revealed number. Advertisement Worldwide, TB kills more than 1.6 million people annually, even though most deaths are preventable with treatment. "If we are going to eliminate the disease, we need technology," said Dr. Richard Garfein of the University of California, San Diego School of Medicine, who helped develop one of the smartphone apps, SureAdhere. ___ Follow AP Medical Writer Carla K. Johnson on Twitter: @CarlaKJohnson ___ The Associated Press Health & Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:17 P.M. E.D.T.
 LOS ANGELES —  "Roseanne," the 1990s television comedy about a working-class American family, scored monster ratings on its return to ABC after 20 years, attracting more than 18 million viewers. Ratings data on Wednesday showed that the premiere of the rebooted series starring original cast members Roseanne Barr and John Goodman was the most-watched show on U.S. television on Tuesday night with an audience of 18.2 million Americans. The original "Roseanne" aired from 1988 to 1997. It  featured a blue-collar family, the Conners, with overweight parents struggling to get by in the fictional town of Lanford, Illinois, and was praised for its realistic portrayal of working-class life. The revival will deal with politics, topical issues such as opioid addiction and access to healthcare, and features Roseanne's grown-up daughter Darlene, played again by Sara Gilbert, whose young son is gender fluid. Advertisement Barr, who says she voted for U.S. President Donald Trump,  has said she wants the revival, in which she is a grandmother who voted for Trump in the 2016 elections, to portray a United States in which half the voters chose him. Advertisement Trump's son Donald Trump Jr. was among those congratulating  Barr on the success of the premiere, which poked fun at both the left and the right. "If you’re not too busy already maybe work in a late night show too ... seems there’s some demand for an alternate viewpoint," Trump Jr. tweeted. Barr, who live tweeted during the premiere, thanked fans on Wednesday. "I am so grateful to the fans of the Roseanne show for giving it a good Premiere rating. You are all wonderful-here is to making America laugh & talk again! LOVE U," she tweeted.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Walt Disney-owned ABC said the two back-to-back opening episodes drew some 1.5 million viewers more than the finale of "Roseanne" in May 1997 - an era before Americans had wider viewing choices offered by streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon. It was also the most watched comedy broadcast on U.S. television since an episode of "Big Bang Theory" in September     2014. "Roseanne" is the latest hit show from the 1980s and 199Os to be revived. It follows NBC comedy "Will & Grace" and Showtime's supernatural crime drama "Twin Peaks," both of which returned to television in 2017. "Will & Grace," about a gay lawyer and his three friends, also proved a hit, although the September 2017 premiere attracted just 10.2 million American viewers. ABC said the success of "Roseanne" boosted audiences for its other programs, delivering the network its strongest Tuesday since September 2013. (Reporting by Jill Serjeant; Editing by Tom Brown) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JOHN KOBLINMARCH 28, 2018
 At least for a night, America said it really did want more “Roseanne.” The revival of the vintage ABC sitcom got off to an enormously strong start on Tuesday night, drawing 18.2 million viewers and a 5.1 rating among adults under 50, according to Nielsen. The “Roseanne” numbers rank as the highest total of any comedy on the broadcast networks since the 2014 season premiere of “The Big Bang Theory.” For comparison’s sake, NBC’s reboot of “Will & Grace” in September drew a little over 10 million viewers and a 3.0 rating among 18- to 49-year-olds. Earlier this month, ABC’s revival of “American Idol” reached an audience of 10.3 million viewers and scored a 2.3 rating in the prize demographic. Both debuts were cause for celebration at both broadcast networks. The “Roseanne” numbers, however, are in an entirely different category and stand to grow when delayed viewing is factored in. Many TV industry executives were divided on whether or not a new version of “Roseanne” would take off. Though the industry has been in a reboot craze for the last two years (series like “Full House,” “Twin Peaks,” “The X-Files,” “One Day at a Time” and “Murphy Brown,” have all been brought back to life), the results have ranged from “meh” to solid. Advertisement Unlike those shows, “Roseanne” has seemingly appealed to viewers for reasons having nothing to do with nostalgia: In interviews leading up to the sitcom’s premiere, the show’s Emmy-winning star, Roseanne Barr, made it clear that she was a supporter of President Trump and let it be known that her program would grapple with a hot political moment that has divided some American families. “I’ve always had it be a true reflection of the society we live in,” Ms. Barr said during a Television Critics Association press event in January. “Half the country voted for him, half of them didn’t. It’s just realistic.” Advertisement If “Roseanne” does not suffer an enormous decline, the series has a good chance at becoming one of the top-rated shows of the 2017-18 television season. The highest-rated series among adults under 50 is currently “This Is Us,” which has a 5.3 rating among adults under 50, but that includes delayed-viewing data. ABC ran two episodes of “Roseanne” on Tuesday night. In the first half-hour, shown at 8 p.m. Eastern time, the show had an average of 17.7 million viewers. That number grew at 8:30 to 18.6 million viewers. The network will air nine episodes altogether.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The network has not made a decision about whether there will be another season, but Ms. Barr told The New York Times, “We all want to keep doing it so we just hope people like it and they watch it, and it gets renewed, you know, we all want that.” The “Roseanne” revival has been part of a broader strategy at ABC to reorient its programming since Mr. Trump won the November 2016 election. That has included inspiring and hopeful shows, among them “The Good Doctor,” a surprise ABC hit, about an autistic doctor that stars Freddie Highmore. And it included the reboot of “Roseanne.” The first run of “Roseanne” lasted nine seasons, from 1988 to 1997. At the time it was one of the few hit programs centered on a working-class family. The show impressed critics, provided grist for op-ed columnists and won its share of Emmys and Golden Globes, and a Peabody. The sitcom could also help ABC finally escape the basement among the big four networks. It has finished each of the last two seasons in last place. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: Revival of ‘Roseanne’ Draws Huge Audience.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:08 A.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Facebook Inc is giving users more control over their privacy by making data management easier and redesigning the settings menu, the company said on Wednesday, in the wake of a scandal over a breach that exposed the personal information of millions and was allegedly used by a political consultancy. The company also said it would propose in the coming weeks updates to the social media website's terms of service and data policy to better spell out what information it collects and how it uses it. The company has faced a global outcry after a whistleblower said that data from millions of users was improperly harvested by consultancy Cambridge Analytica to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections. Facebook shares are down nearly 18 percent since March 16, when it first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled to Cambridge Analytica, eating away nearly $100 billion of the company's market value. Advertisement "We've heard loud and clear that privacy settings and other important tools are too hard to find, and that we must do more to keep people informed," Erin Egan, Facebook's chief privacy officer, and Ashlie Beringer, its deputy general counsel, said in a statement.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In addition to redesigning its settings menu on mobile devices, Facebook said it is creating a new privacy shortcut menu where users would be able to better secure their accounts and control personal information. It would also allow users to review and delete data they have shared, including posts and search queries. Users would be able to download the data shared with Facebook, including uploaded photos, contacts added to their account, and posts on timelines. Advertisement (Reporting by Philip George and Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:03 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg plans to testify before Congress about the company's privacy practices in coming weeks, according to a person familiar with the matter. This person spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. Zuckerberg is aware there is intense pressure on him to testify, this person said. Zuckerberg said last week in a CNN interview that he'd be "happy" to testify, but didn't commit to appear. Facebook is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that a data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections. A spokeswoman for the House Energy and Commerce Committee said Tuesday that the committee is working with Facebook to determine a day and time for Zuckerberg to testify. Advertisement Meanwhile, Zuckerberg snubbed a summons from a British Parliamentary committee investigating the rise of fake news, offering to send senior Facebook executives instead. Advertisement This would be the first time Zuckerberg has ever testified before Congress. Last fall, the company sent its top lawyer to speak before Congress about Russian interference in the 2016 elections. Google and Twitter also sent lower-level executives to the three public hearings on the matter. Separately, Facebook announced a privacy settings makeover on Wednesday. While the move is intended to prepare for tighter European privacy regulations going into effect in May, Facebook said that recent events "underscore their importance."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The changes won't affect Facebook's privacy policies or the types of data it gathers on users. But the company hopes its 2.2 billion users will have an easier time navigating its complex and often confusing privacy and security settings. Facebook says it also wants to give users a simpler way to access and download the data it collects on them. Chris Cox, Facebook's chief product officer, called the new settings "the first of many steps" the company is taking to address privacy concerns. Facebook also said it is shutting down a type of advertising product that allowed marketers to use data from people's lives outside of Facebook to target them on the platform. The information includes categories like home ownership and purchase history and is collected by some of the world's largest data brokers such as Acxiom, Epsilon and Experian. Facebook's product marketing director Graham Mudd said in a statement that shutting down the feature over the next six months "will help improve people's privacy on Facebook." The program allowed specific targeting of audiences using offline data about them in the U.S., Brazil, France, Germany, the U.K., Australia and Japan. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:48 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  You're going to use those credit card points on that trip to Tahiti this year; you just don't know it yet. A growing number of credit card companies are using artificial intelligence software to convince customers to use their credit card points in a certain way, be it redeeming their points for travel, dining, shopping or gift cards, with the goal of keeping those customers spending more and loyal to their cards. Companies have used your past purchases to market you items for years. If you buy a tennis racket from Amazon, soon you'll get ads from Amazon trying to sell you tennis balls. What credit card companies are doing differently is using other measurements that would typically not be associated with a particular type of consumer behavior as predictors. Banks and other credit card companies have some of the most intimate details on an average person's spending; knowing how much a person typically spends a month on particular categories and what merchants they shop at, and in some very limited cases, information on what exactly they purchased, such as a hotel room or airline tickets. Advertisement "It used to be 'we saw you shop at Apple, so we are going to send you ads for Apple.' Now, you may not have spent a dollar at Apple previously, but because you spend at other retailers or fit the profile of an Apple customer we can target you," said Jesse Wolfersberger, senior director of decision sciences at Maritz Motivation Solutions, a company that recently partnered with British bank HSBC on its credit card rewards program. Advertisement In the case of Maritz, HSBC sent marketing emails to 75,000 customers using Maritz's algorithms. A portion of customers received an AI-recommended particular category of credit card reward — travel, merchandise, gift cards or cash back — while the rest received standard marketing emails. Roughly 70 percent of the targeted customers who ended up redeeming their points chose the recommendation generated by the computer, Wolfersberger said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "What we see is when people are more engaged with a rewards program they tend to spend more," said Marcos Meneguzzi, head of cards at HSBC. Other credit card companies have been using big data, or artificial intelligence to predict where a customer will spend their money or market items to customers for a few years. American Express has a program known as Amex Offers, which could be a coupon or additional reward points when a customer spends money at a particular merchant. Which American Express customer gets targeted for a particular offer depends on their spending behavior, a company spokeswoman said. Customers can use this to their advantage as well. The more money you spent in a particular category of merchant, the more offers you're likely to get. (In the case of this dog-owning reporter, he gets Amex Offers for pet supplies on a near constant basis, whereas a fashion-minded friend gets offers for Italian label Bottega Veneta.) By creating programs that get customers to spend money on the card, or use their reward points, the credit card companies keep customers more closely tied to the company's card and less likely to switch to a new one. Also it's in the company's best interest to get the customer to redeem points as cheaply as possible, so marketing that encourages a customer to use their points in a particular way could be beneficial to the company as well. Right now companies are only able to adjust and market opportunities for customers to redeem their points in broad categories. Wolfersberger expects credit card companies, using AI, will be able to market specific gift cards to customers or even specific products. It also could be possible for credit card companies to tweak their entire reward programs based on changes in spending behavior as well. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:30 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  The turbulent start to 2018 in financial markets has finally brought an end to one of the longest ever global bull runs - and there have been few places to hide. After last year's tranquillity, as the charts below show, investors have had it all thrown at them this quarter, from the biggest ever rise in stock volatility to rapidly escalating tensions over global trade, deepening turmoil in the White House and major tech sector wobbles. A "melt-up" that sent the MSCI's world share index up 8 percent in January suddenly evaporated. Now the Dow Jones, S&P 500, FTSE Nikkei and scores of other big markets are all down for the year. (Graphic - Global markets in Q1: https://reut.rs/2pKaneV) As a set, the FAANGs (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google) are still up 14 percent, but privacy concerns after it was revealed that 50 million Facebook users' data was misused has wiped $400 billion (£284.1 billion) off their value. Not exactly small change. Advertisement "January was a boom month, but there was clearly complacency coming into the market," said London & Capital's head of equities Roger Jones. "That has all changed now". Advertisement Cryptocurrency Bitcoin has lost 43 percent as well. (Graphic - The sinking FAANGs: https://reut.rs/2GhhYIe) Still, it hasn't been a one-way "risk-off" doom-fest for markets by any means. Galloping global growth mean commodities like oil are up for a third quarter running, stocks in the world's poorest 'frontier' countries are up 4 percent, and Italian bonds have made almost 6 percent returns despite an inconclusive election. After a stellar 2017, emerging market 'local' currency bonds have done well again too as the Chinese yuan, Mexican and Colombian pesos and South Africa's rand have all rallied hard. So has Britain's Brexit-bound pound. It has had its best quarter since early 2015 and not only against a dollar which is locked in its worst run since the financial crisis, but also versus the euro.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The (political) momentum is to make Brexit work now," said one central banker privately. What the choppy conditions have also reminded people of is the value of a good old-fashioned safe-haven. Japan's yen is up 6.5 percent, gold is up for a third straight quarter, and the ultra-safe German Bund has made just over 3 percent in dollar terms as its yields have gone in an almost-perfect arc. But some of the heavyweight central banks like the U.S. Federal Reserve, ECB, Peoples Bank of China, Bank of England and Bank of Canada are still looking to raise interest rates. Unlike Bunds, U.S. Treasuries have lost 3 percent. It is one of the reasons that stocks have been shaky of course, and it remains one of the main things shaping many investors' view on the rest of the year. Advertisement "One thing that it is going to be important to get right now is where to be when bond yields are going up," said SEB investment management's global head of asset allocation Hans Peterson. "We are rotating from the old regime of low interest and growth stocks like the FAANGs into a new world... and that creates volatility." (Graphic - Global FX in 2018: https://reut.rs/2pPldj5) (Reporting by Marc Jones; Editing by Hugh Lawson) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:53 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO —  The selection process for the next Federal Reserve Bank of New York president has drawn the ire of New York City, state and other elected officials amid a report that San Francisco Fed President John Williams is the front runner for the job. The extraordinary public opposition from Democrats, circulated by Washington-based advocacy group Center for Popular Democracy on Wednesday, highlighted concerns over a lack of racial and gender diversity at the U.S. central bank. The outcry marked an escalation of scrutiny of the New York Fed, and could pose a challenge for Fed Chair Jerome Powell's efforts to protect the central bank's independence from political influence. "The New York Fed has never been led by a woman or a person of color, and that needs to change," Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand said in a statement, adding such well-qualified candidates "should not be overlooked." The junior U.S. senator from New York also urged Congressional oversight of the selection process. Advertisement U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren earlier this week also had called for Congressional hearings on the process. Advertisement The Wall Street Journal reported on Saturday that the New York Fed board of directors had recommended Williams, a long time Fed economist and policymaker, to succeed William Dudley as New York Fed president. The New York Fed and the San Francisco Fed declined to comment on Wednesday and the Federal Reserve Board did not respond to a request for comment. The New York Fed said on March 16 it was considering "a handful" of final candidates to replace Dudley, who plans to step down by mid-year. Both Williams and Dudley are white men and professional economists, though their track record in promoting diversity within their banks' ranks appears to differ.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In 2016, 46 percent of senior executives at the San Francisco Fed were minorities, the highest percentage of all the 12 Fed banks, and up from 15 percent when Williams took the helm at the bank. The 2016 figure at the New York Fed was 11 percent. The Fed's 12 regional banks send diversity reports to Congress annually and the 2017 data will be published by the end of March. The New York Fed president, often seen as the second most influential policymaker at the central bank, has a permanent vote on interest-rate setting; serves as vice chair of the policy-making committee; oversees market operations including $4.4 trillion in assets; and supervises big banks. "The New York Federal Reserve Bank must be led by someone who will stand up for an economy that works for all of us – not just Wall Street and the 1 percent. Period," said New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio in a separate statement. New York City comptroller Scott Stringer, and 34 state legislators also released letters urging the Fed Chair and the New York Fed to consider diversity in selecting a candidate. Still, a final decision has not yet been made on a nominee, according to two sources close to the search process who spoke under conditional of anonymity. Advertisement (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer and Ann Saphir; editing by Diane Craft) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:48 A.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Facebook is giving its privacy tools a makeover as it reels from criticisms over its data practices and faces tighter European regulations in the coming months. The changes won't affect Facebook's privacy policies or the types of data it gathers on users. But the company hopes its 2.2 billion users will have an easier time navigating its complex and often confusing privacy and security settings. Facebook says it also wants to give users a simpler way to access and download the data it collects on them. Wednesday's announcement follows revelations that a Trump-affiliated consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, got data on millions of Facebook users. That included information on friends of people who had downloaded a psychological quiz app, even though those friends hadn't given explicit consent to sharing. In addition, Facebook is also facing widespread criticism for collecting years of contact names, telephone numbers and call and text histories from Android users. The company has not said exactly what it used such data for or why it needed it. On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission said it is investigating Facebook over its privacy practices. Facebook's chief privacy officer, Erin Egan, said in a blog post that most of the privacy updates have been in the works for "some time, but the events of the past several days underscore their importance." Advertisement Facebook also said it plans to update its privacy policy and terms of service in the coming weeks, but gave no further details. Advertisement The company has tried over the years to simplify its privacy settings, yet the controls remain hard to find and use for many people. For example, Facebook announced in 2009 that it was consolidating six privacy pages and more than 30 settings on to a single privacy page. Yet mobile users still had to go to nearly 20 different places to access all of their privacy controls. Now, Facebook says they will be accessible from a single place. Facebook says it is also adding "clearer explanations" about how its privacy controls work.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Chris Cox, Facebook's chief product officer, called the new settings "the first of many steps" the company is taking to address privacy concerns. Facebook has been working on the changes in preparation for the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, which were approved two years ago and take effect May 25. The rules are designed to make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data. They apply to any company that collects data on EU residents, no matter where it is based. To comply with this, Facebook is adding a section called "access your information," a secure way for users to manage data they've shared with the company, including status updates, comments and things they have searched for. That's where people can go to delete information or download a copy. While this download was already possible, it took some time to figure out how to do it. Cox said the changes let people browse through their information in detail, without having to download it. For example, users will now be able to look up a post from a specific date in the past. Cox said that while the changes are "in line with the principle of GDPR," there's also a "bunch of stuff that goes above and beyond that." Facebook also said it will propose updates to its terms of service in the coming weeks and update its privacy policy, but gave no further details. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement With Andrew Ross Sorkin MARCH 28, 2018
 Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching. • Are we witnessing the end of the tech mania? • Amazon has shed more than $50 billion in market value. •Are investors waking up to Tesla’s real problem? • Mark Zuckerberg agreed to testify before Congress. • SoftBank and Saudi Arabia are planning the world’s largest solar energy project. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. Investors, always willing to believe in technology companies, spent the last three years piling into the shares of companies like Facebook, Amazon and Netflix with special abandon. Now the intellectual underpinnings of the tech rally are being seriously tested. Advertisement Stocks in the best-known tech companies have plunged in recent days. The NYSE FANG+ index, which tracks the share price of 10 companies, including Facebook, Apple and Amazon, has fallen nearly 14 percent from its recent high. Given that the index has soared 50 percent in just the past 12 months, the recent decline could just be the sort of sell-off that punctuates any long-term rally. Advertisement Still, several large tech companies suddenly face challenges that could undermine their ability to transform whole industries. And as we’ve seen after previous fervors, investors can take a long time to regain their faith. Facebook is down 20 percent from its recent high. Most of the slide came after news reports showing how the company’s data was misused. Investors have to grapple with the possibility that Facebook won’t be sharing as much data as it does, undermining its ability to generate ever-increasing amounts of advertising revenue. Nvidia, a computer chip maker intent on being a leader in automated driving technology, is off 12 percent from its recent high. The company said on Tuesday that it would halt tests of its autonomous driving technology on public roads after an Uber self-driving car hit and killed a pedestrian in Arizona. Tesla is not a tech stock, but it is included in the FANG+ index, and its supporters believe deeply in its power to revolutionize the auto industry. Growing fears about Tesla’s ability to finance its expansion have helped drag its stock down 33 percent from its recent high. Ominously, the price of Tesla’s bonds is also falling, signaling that the company is losing the confidence of creditors. Of course, on their march higher, tech stocks overcame obstacles, like management problems at Uber and the poor performance of Snap’s initial public offering. But the latest problems have raised deeper, broader doubts, and that may keep the uncertainty around longer. Investors have viewed automated driving technology as a huge potential source of growth for some companies. But after the Uber incident in Arizona, those companies may take a more realistic look at what they have to spend to create a technology that is efficient and safe, and conclude that they have to pull out of the race or pare back. Users of social media and regulators may prevent social media companies from sharing so much of their data with advertisers, and that could restrain revenue growth. And if the passion for two or three big tech companies wanes, the cooling may spread. — Peter Eavis The reason? Advertisement Reports that President Trump wants to rein in the e-commerce giant. Jonathan Swan of Axios, citing anonymous sources, reported: “Trump has talked about changing Amazon’s tax treatment because he’s worried about mom-and-pop retailers being put out of business.” Mr. Swan added: “Trump’s wealthy friends tell him Amazon is destroying their businesses. His real estate buddies tell him — and he agrees — that Amazon is killing shopping malls and brick-and-mortar retailers.” Shares of Amazon have tumbled more than 7 percent at one point Wednesday, but they pared those losses after a White House official told Reuters there were no specific policy changes related to Amazon being considered at the moment. But the official added that the administration is always looking at different options on a range of policy issues. How concerned should investors be? GBH Insights analyst Daniel Ives writes: “While it’s now a hand holding time for Amazon given this new regulatory potential threat, we believe the reality of these worries altering the company’s business model and future tax structure are low and we would be buyers of the name on weakness.” Guess which companies are benefiting from Amazon's woes? Retailers, the FT points out. On a day when the stocks on Wall Street are flat, Macy’s was up 3.5 percent, J.C. Penney has gained 5.5 percent, Walmart rose 1.7 percent, Target increased 1.8 percent, and Kohl’s was up 2.4 percent. The electric carmaker’s shares are down 7 percent Wednesday, after plunging 8 percent on Tuesday. Tuesday’s slide was driven, in part, by the National Transportation Safety Board’s announcement that it was investigating a fatal crash last week involving a Tesla vehicle in California. News that Jaguar Land Rover was teaming up with Alphabet Inc.’s Waymo unit probably didn't help either. But the continued decline in Tesla’s stock — its shares are down more than 20 percent since mid-March — speaks to the bigger concern surrounding Tesla: How it funds itself. Investors have grown increasingly worried as Tesla burns through cash and struggles to meet its own production goals for the Model 3. Late Tuesday, Moody’s downgraded Tesla’s credit rating further into junk territory and said its outlook on the company is negative. The credit ratings agency cited production delays and said Tesla may soon need to raise more than $2 billion. Those concerns can be seen not just in Tesla’s stock price but also in the trading of its debt. The FT points out that “Tesla’s eight-year bond maturing in 2025 traded on Wednesday at 87.6 cents to the dollar, the lowest since issuance. The yield has surged to 7.5 percent from 6.59 percent on Monday.” Liam Denning of Bloomberg Gadfly writes: “Challenges on the factory floor and the balance sheet are converging. Drawing inexorably closer to a refinancing wall, Tesla needs a real shot of confidence, and capital, to keep its money machine turning over this year. “Given Tuesday’s bond blowout, that almost certainly means tapping the equity market again. Nothing like being a motivated seller to put a floor under a stock price, right?” The fallout from Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal has spread to Twitter. The stock tumbled 12 percent Tuesday after Citron Research’s Andrew Left said he was betting against the social media company because of its vulnerability to regulation around how it handles user data. 
            Citron short $TWTR. Near-Term target $25 Of all social media, they are most vulnerable to privacy regulation Wait until Senate finds out what Citron has published. https://t.co/nAkRWb8Kcn  But analysts at Barclays disagree. They argue in a recent note to clients that Twitter’s data business likely won’t be impacted much by any regulation on its use of user data.  The credit reporting company named Mark Begor, a private equity executive who once led General Electric’s credit card business, as its new chief executive. Advertisement Mr. Begor, 59, takes over for Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., who has filled the role on an interim basis since September, when Richard F. Smith stepped down after a data breach exposed sensitive personal information, including Social Security numbers, of 148 million people. Mr. Begor will start at Equifax on April 16. About Mr. Begor • The 59-year-old is a managing director at the private equity firm Warburg Pincus. He is also a member of the board at the credit-scoring company FICO. • Mr. Begor spent 35 years at General Electric, where his duties included leading the conglomerate’s real-estate investment and energy management units. For nine years, he was president and chief executive of the company’s consumer credit business, which was later spun off as Synchrony Financial. His pay package Equifax said it would give Mr. Begor stock and options valued at $17 million this year and an annual salary and bonus of up to $4.5 million. President Trump has scored a significant trade deal with South Korea. But with Mr. Trump preparing to meet with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un — who just took an armored train trip to Beijing — and the North apparently pressing on with nuclear developments, an “America first” trade stance was far from the only thing pushing the South to sign. More from Michael D. Shear and Alan Rappeport: The political success of the trade agreement — and its ability to be replicated in other negotiations — is not guaranteed. Many countries have reacted coolly to Washington’s pugilistic approach to trade, viewing the president’s preference to punch first and negotiate later as counter to global interests. The Trump administration continues to ramp up its trade rhetoric with China. Unidentified sources told Bloomberg that it is considering invoking an emergency law to restrict Chinese investments in sensitive U.S. tech. A separate plan to enact tariffs on $60 billion of Chinese goods has left companies wondering which industries will be targeted. Other Asian countries increasingly fear being caught in the crossfire of a trade war, the WSJ reports. And nations are already reacting to Trump’s trade moves, erecting  barriers to stop the steel and aluminum that faces tariffs in the U.S. being dumped in their markets. Advertisement Against this background, NXP sold its 40 percent stake in a Chinese joint venture on chip design. Companies like Facebook, Amazon and Alphabet have delivered some of the best returns to investors in recent years, powered by the achievements and the promise of social media and artificial intelligence. But that confidence is evaporating, as investors brace for intensified regulatory scrutiny across the industry. Tech stocks took a pummeling yesterday and in early European trading. Twitter dropped 12 percent after Andrew Left’s Citron Research said it was shorting the company. Critic’s corner: The “sector’s growing clout over everyday life also raises the risks of what can go wrong,” Dan Gallagher argues at WSJ’s Heard on the Street. The public outcry over Facebook’s data and privacy settings has grown loud enough that Mark Zuckerberg now says he’s willing to testify to Congress. The company is on a hiring spree for lobbyists, too, and unnamed sources say it’s putting off the promotion of new home products. Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The man who started all this, the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Christopher Wylie, spoke to British lawmakers on Tuesday and revealed that an employee of Palantir Technologies had suggested that Cambridge Analytica build an app to gain access to Facebook networks. Palantir was co-founded by Peter Thiel, who sits on the Facebook board. Separately, New Zealand’s privacy commissioner has accused Facebook of breaking a law by refusing to give a man information about him held in other users’ accounts. Fair housing groups are suing over ad targeting, saying Facebook still lets advertisers discriminate. And three Facebook Messenger users are suing on privacy grounds. Nvidia — the chip maker whose autonomous-vehicle technology is used by Volkswagen, Tesla, Audi and hundreds of other firms — said it would halt its own tests on self-driving cars, after an autonomous Uber vehicle struck and killed a pedestrian in Arizona. Its shares dropped 7.8 percent. Here’s Roger Lanctot, an automotive technology analyst with Strategy Analytics: Nvidia has no choice but to take steps in the context of the fear, uncertainty and outrage likely to be stimulated by a robot car killing a human being. This is precisely the type of event that is capable of slaying a nascent industry in the crib. Tesla also tumbled 8.2 percent, after the National Transportation Safety Board said it was conducting its second crash investigation of the year involving one of the company’s cars. There’s also anxiety about whether it will hit production goals. Advertisement Uber said it would not renew its California permit for self-driving vehicle tests until investigations were complete in Arizona. And it’s facing questions over a decision to scale back on safety sensors. But Waymo said it still intended to put thousands of self-driving cars — customized Jaguar I-Paces, to be precise — on the road over the next two years. Critic’s corner: Timothy B. Lee argues in Ars Technica that Uber should sell its self-driving project, which needed a firm with a “methodical, safety-oriented culture.” The tech flyaround • Uber has settled a discrimination lawsuit from three female software engineers for $10 million. (Recode) • Ransomware has hobbled the city government in Atlanta. (NYT) • Apple unveiled a new iPad aimed at classrooms, where Google has raced ahead. (NYT) • Oracle won a federal appeal in its multibillion-dollar copyright infringement claim against Google, in a way that could make software developers easier to sue. (WSJ) • Google bought the GIF platform Tenor. (Verge) • Snapchat is building a way for people to use their account with third-party apps, Facebook-style. (Recode) • Robert Mercer, of Renaissance and Cambridge Analytica fame, is also a volunteer police officer in Lake Arthur, N.M. (Bloomberg) Advertisement • The former Supreme Court justice John Paul Stevens has called for the Second Amendment to be repealed, in an NYT Op-Ed. Bloomberg looked at how the bankruptcy of the gun maker Remington Outdoor would affect the people suing it for as much as $500 million. And the N.R.A. said it accepted funds from foreign sources, but did not spend them on election campaigns. • At least 12 states say they would sue if the Trump administration seeks to add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. A less accurate census — if, say, fewer immigrants were to respond — could distort both government spending and the House of Representatives. • The F.B.I. found continuing ties between Russian intelligence and a business associate of the former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, according to court documents filed by the special counsel’s team. (WaPo) • A Republican plan for the midterm elections: more tax cuts. (Politico) The $200 billion solar power project would be the largest in the world and could help Saudi Arabia lessen its dependence on oil. But Jenny Chase, head of solar analysis at BNEF, told Bloomberg: “It is worth noting that many of these memorandums of understanding do not result in anything happening.” Saudi officials were in New York as part of a tour by Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, who spoke to the NYT, urging a tough line on Iran. And Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund said it was considering opening offices around the world. Deals flyaround • Takeda Pharmaceutical said it was considering a bid for Shire that could improve its position in drugs for cancer, gastrointestinal disease and nervous system ailments. (Bloomberg) • Potential bidders for GlaxoSmithKline’s health nutrition business could include Nestlé, Kraft Heinz and Unilever, unnamed sources say. (Reuters) Advertisement • The real estate broker Cushman & Wakefield is interviewing I.P.O. advisers, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg) • Tyson Foods has hired Goldman Sachs to explore the sale of its pizza crust business. (FT) • In a cross-examination during their big merger case, the lead lawyer for AT&T and Time Warner pushed back against the description of Time Warner’s content as “must-have.” (CNN) • The Carolina Panthers football team could fetch a record sale price of about $2.5 billion. (NYT) Books are on hold and deals are being canceled as the publishing sector grapples with accusations of sexual harassment by authors and others. But the response has not been universal, as publishers weigh lost profits against reputational risks in an industry dominated by women. Separately, former employees at Wynn Resorts said that managers had for years ignored or dismissed complaints about Steve Wynn’s conduct toward women. A former Miramax employee appeared before British lawmakers today to seek a change in the law on nondisclosure agreements. • The chief executive of Deutsche Bank, whoever it is, will face a challenge regaining investors’ trust: its share price is less than 40 percent of the net worth stated on its balance sheet and it relies a lot on potentially unpredictable Wall Street revenue. • Wu Xiaihui, former chairman of the Chinese insurer Anbang, went on trial in Shanghai. (FT) • A key player at the birth of Berkshire Hathaway’s health venture with Amazon and JPMorgan: the Berkshire investment manager Todd Combs. (Bloomberg) • The former Lloyds Banking Group chief Eric Daniels has won a legal battle over a bonus worth $2.1 million. It was withheld from him after the bank needed a government bailout. (Times of London) Advertisement • Netflix’s talent hunting is pushing up Hollywood salaries. (Bloomberg) • How much would a Warren Buffett investment help G.E.? (Bloomberg Gadfly) Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here. You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook. We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com. An earlier version of this article misstated the amount of a bonus at the center of a legal battle between Lloyds Banking Group and Eric Daniels, the former chief executive. It was $2.1 million, not $2.1 billion. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 11:09 A.M. E.D.T.
 BOGOTA —  Colombia, which will hold presidential elections in May, on Wednesday blocked access to a cell phone application it said might be connected with Cambridge Analytica, the political consultancy that has been accused of violating Facebook users' privacy to influence elections in Britain and the United States. Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections. Colombia's commerce regulator said in a statement it would block an application called Pig.gi, which gives users free top-ups in exchange for receiving ads and recommending their friends. The app has more than a million downloads in Colombia and Mexico combined, the regulator said. The app, which users download via the Google Play store and sign into using their Facebook account, is administered by Farrow Colombia S.A.S and Farrow Mexico S.A.P.I. de CV, the statement said. Advertisement Attempts to reach Farrow for comment were unsuccessful. A number listed for Farrow in Colombia belongs to another company. There is no listed number for the Mexico branch of the company. Advertisement "As a preventative measure and taking into account the potential risk of a wrongful and massive illegal use of the personal data of thousands of Colombians collected via the download of the Pig.gi application, the application Pig.gi is temporarily blocked while appropriate investigations are undertaken and definitive decisions adopted," the regulator said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The regulator did not specify what evidence it had of a connection between Cambridge Analytica and Farrow. The application will be blocked on the Google Play app store and on social media, as will websites where it can be downloaded. The regulator added it has requested cooperation and information from its counterparts in the United States, United Kingdom, European Union and Mexico. Facebook announced a series of changes on Wednesday to give users more control over their data, after the scandal wiped more than $100 billion from its stock market value. Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in U.S. President Donald Trump's campaign, and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. Colombia will hold presidential elections on May 27. (Reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb and Nelson Bocanegra; Editing by David Gregorio) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Thomas L. Friedman There is so much news these days that it’s hard to distinguish one big story from another. But for me the most consequential story of late was that a self-driving car operated by Uber — with an emergency backup driver behind the wheel — struck and tragically killed a woman on a street in Tempe, Ariz. I could only look at that deeply unsettling story and say: Welcome to the second inning — the second inning of one of the world’s great technological leaps, the implications of which we’re just beginning to understand. But first, let’s acknowledge one thing: The first inning was amazing. It was an inning full of promise, discovery and marvel. In the early 2000s, a set of technologies came together into platforms, social networks and software that made connectivity and solving complex problems fast, virtually free, easy for you, ubiquitous and invisible. Suddenly, more individuals could compete, connect, collaborate and create with more other people, in more ways, from more places, for less money and with greater ease than ever before. And we sure did! We became our own filmmakers and reporters; we launched political and social revolutions from our living rooms; we connected with long-lost family and friends; we found the answers to old and new questions with one click; we searched for everything from spouses to news to directions to kindred spirits with our phones; we exposed dictators and branded ourselves. With one touch, we could suddenly call a taxi, direct a taxi, rate a taxi and pay a taxi — or rent an igloo, rate an igloo and pay for an igloo in Alaska. And then, just as suddenly, we found ourselves in the second inning. The cool self-driving car killed a pedestrian; the cool Facebook platform enabled Russian troll farms to divide us and inject fake news into our public life; the uncool totalitarian government learned how to use the same facial recognition tools that can ease your way through passport control to single you out in a crowd for arrest. And Mark Zuckerberg, who promised to connect us all — and that it would all be good — found himself on the cover of Wired magazine, with his face cut, bruised and bandaged, as if he’d been hit by a fastball. He wasn’t alone. In inning two, we started to feel beat up by the same platforms and technologies that had enriched, empowered and connected our lives. Silicon Valley, we have a problem. What to do? For problems like this, I like to consult my teacher and friend Dov Seidman, CEO of LRN, which helps companies and leaders build ethical cultures, and the author of the book, “How: Why How We Do Anything Means Everything.” “The first inning’s prevailing ethos was that any technology that makes the world more open by connecting us or makes us more equal by empowering us individually must, in and of itself, be a force for good,” Seidman began. “But, in inning two, we are coming to grips with the reality that the power to make the world more open and equal is not in the technologies themselves. It all depends on how the tools are designed and how we choose to use them. The same amazing tech that enables people to forge deeper relationships, foster closer communities and give everyone a voice can also breed isolation, embolden racists, and empower digital bullies and nefarious actors.” Equally important, Seidman added, these “unprecedented and valuable tools of connection” are being used with great accuracy and potency “to assault the foundations of what makes our democracies vibrant, capitalism dynamic and our societies healthy — namely, truth and trust.” And they have begun to be used “to assault our personal foundations — our privacy and sense of identity,” Seidman said: “It is one thing to use our data to enable better shopping experiences, but when my beliefs and attitudes are mined and manipulated for someone’s political campaign, a campaign that may be antithetical to my beliefs, that is deeply harmful and unmooring.” So what to do? “Precisely because we are in just the beginning of a technological revolution with a long, uncertain, up-and-down road ahead, we need to start by pausing to reflect on how our world, reshaped by these technologies, operates differently — and on the kind of values and leadership we will need to realize their promise.” Values are more vital now than ever, Seidman insisted. “Because sustainable values are what anchor us in a storm, and because values propel and guide us when our lives are profoundly disrupted. They help us make the hard decisions.” Hard decisions abound, because everything is now connected. “The world is fused. So there no place anymore to stand to the side and claim neutrality — to say, ‘I am just a businessperson’ or ‘I am just running a platform.’ ” No way. “Once you see that your technologies are having unintended consequences, you cannot maintain your neutrality — especially when you’ve become so central to the lives of billions of people.” In the fused world, Seidman said, “the business of business is no longer just business. The business of business is now society. And, therefore, how you take or don’t take responsibility for what your technology enables or for what happens on your platforms is inescapable. This is the emerging expectation of users — real people — who’ve entrusted so much of their inner lives to these powerful companies.” To be sure, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube should all be commended for trying to find engineering solutions to prevent them from being hacked and weaponized. “But this is not just an engineering problem, or just a business model problem,” he said. “Software solutions can increase our confidence that we can stay a step ahead of the bad guys. But, fundamentally, it will take more ‘moralware’ to regain our trust. Only one kind of leadership can respond to this kind of problem — moral leadership.” What does moral leadership look like here? “Moral leadership means truly putting people first and making whatever sacrifices that entails,” said Seidman. “That means not always competing on shallow things and quantity — on how much time people spend on your platform — but on quality and depth. It means seeing and treating people not just as ‘users’ or ‘clicks,’ but as ‘citizens,’ who are worthy of being accurately informed to make their best choices. It means not just trying to shift people from one click to another, from one video to another, but instead trying to elevate them in ways that deepen our connections and enrich our conversations.” It means, Seidman continued, being “fully transparent about how you operate, and make decisions that affect them — all the ways in which you’re monetizing their data. It means having the courage to publish explicit standards of quality and expectations of conduct, and fighting to maintain them however inconvenient. It means having the humility to ask for help even from your critics. It means promoting civility and decency, making the opposite unwelcome. It means being truly bold — proclaiming, for example, that you will not sleep until you’re certain that our next democratic election won’t be hacked.” At the height of the Cold War, when the world was threatened by spreading Communism and rising walls, President John F. Kennedy vowed to “pay any price and bear any burden” to ensure the success of liberty. Today, falling walls and spreading webs — which criminals and nations can use to poison democratic societies — are becoming the biggest threat to the success of liberty. You will know that the good guys are winning when you see big tech companies rise to Kennedy’s challenge — to pay any price and bear any burden to protect us from the downsides of the technologies they’ve created. Welcome to the second inning. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:06 A.M. E.D.T.
 DUBLIN —  Irish retail sales volumes were 2 percent higher in February than in the same month last year, data showed on Wednesday, as a Brexit-related fall in new car sales weighed on the index in the early months for the second successive year. Retail sales have grown strongly in Ireland in recent years but were slightly subdued last year due to a fall in new car sales as a result of some motorists preferring to import cars from Britain due to a fall in the value of sterling. New car sales have fallen a further 2.4 percent so far this year. Excluding them from the index, "core" retail sales volumes were up 6.3 percent on the year, the second highest level in seven months, the central statistics office data showed. (Reporting by Padraic Halpin; Editing by Kevin Liffey) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:38 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  The suspended chief executive of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, will appear before a British parliamentary committee, the Culture, Media and Sport Committee said on Wednesday. Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters. The session will be Nix's second appearance before the committee and is likely to take place on April 17. (Reporting by William James, editing by Elizabeth Piper) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:48 P.M. E.D.T.
 JERUSALEM —  Israel announced Wednesday it was launching a domestic digital health database that could make it a global medical powerhouse. The move aims to improve public health worldwide but critics warn it risks compromising personal privacy. Eli Groner, director-general of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's office, said the system could help prevent disease by pairing each individual with his or her own relevant data. With easy access to a person's medical history, he said it may be possible to become informed of a looming disease before one actually contracts it. "The database will be unlike anything in the world," Groner said. If successful — something he said depends on the number of those willing to participate — the database could be shared with medical researchers globally and help diagnose trends and help develop better medication worldwide. Groner said the launch is expected by the end of 2018, stressing that divulging data depends on individual consent and that teams are now hammering out details on how to ensure maximum privacy. Advertisement The innovation is possible in part because of Israel's relatively small size and already centralized health care system. Most of the country's 8.7 million citizens are members of four main health care providers, which have been maintaining their records digitally for years. The new database aims to collect all the information in one place. Advertisement At his weekly Cabinet meeting, Netanyahu said Sunday the $275 million project is of "historic significance" and that its goal is to improve "preventive medicine" and also achieve "personal medicine, personally calibrated for each person."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The announcement comes as Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire following revelations that it failed to prevent the data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica from amassing personal information about millions of users and that the social network has been collecting Android users' phone call and text message histories without notice. Critics say the selling of medical records for profit could spell disaster for patient confidentiality. Tehilla Shwartz Altshuler, a senior fellow at the Israel Democracy Institute, said even data entered anonymously does not guarantee long-term confidentiality and it is unclear what uses will be made in the future with data disclosed now. "Medical records are the most private information you could think about, it includes DNA, bloodwork, all medical history," she said. "Stuff you may not want insurance companies, employers, spouses, whoever to know — you don't even want Facebook to know so that it won't be able to mesh it up with other information it has about you." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Donald J. Boudreaux The many Americans now cheering President Trump’s willingness to fight a trade war with China no doubt believe that trade in recent years with that Asian nation has destroyed too many American jobs. Not long ago an academic paper by the economists David Autor, David Dorn and Gordon Hanson garnered an unusual amount of public attention because of its estimate that trade with China from 1999 to 2011 destroyed 2.4 million jobs in the United States. Our anxiety about trade-related job loss is not confined to China. Just a few weeks ago Mr. Trump declared that the North American Free Trade Agreement caused a “massive relocation of companies and jobs.” On Nafta’s 20th anniversary, in 2014, the trade skeptic Lori Wallach complained that the agreement had destroyed one million American jobs. These estimates of jobs destroyed by trade sound big, but they’re actually tiny. Relative to overall routine job destruction and creation — “job churn” — the number of American jobs destroyed by trade is minuscule. In January alone, the number of American workers who were laid off or dismissed from their jobs was 1.8 million. The number of workers who quit their jobs that month was 3.3 million. Adding in workers who left their jobs for other reasons, such as retirement and disability, the number of job separations in January was 5.4 million. But there were 5.6 million hires in January, too. Those numbers are typical of most months. Awareness of job churn should calm Americans’ fears about imports. The Bureau of Labor Statistics has data on monthly nonfarm discharges and layoffs since September 2006. Unsurprisingly, this number peaked during the Great Recession, at 2.57 million in January 2009. But even excluding the recession months, the monthly average number of workers in the United States who lose their jobs is around 1.75 million. In a normal year, then, the number of workers laid off or dismissed averages 21 million. Compared with the number of total annual job losses, therefore, job losses from trade shrink into insignificance. Ms. Wallach’s estimate that Nafta destroyed one million jobs in its first 20 years means that it took freer trade with Mexico two decades to destroy as many American jobs as are now destroyed every 18 days on average. Mr. Autor, Mr. Dorn and Mr. Hanson’s calculation that 2.4 million American jobs were ended by trade with China from 1999 through 2011 implies that the 13-year “China shock,” as the paper called it, eliminated as many jobs as are eliminated, on average, every 41 days. Clearly, trade is a trifling source of job loss when compared with other sources. These other sources are ordinary economic changes that, like trade, fuel our high standard of living. Every time our tastes as consumers change, we alter the way we spend our money. The number of jobs producing things that we lose our taste for, such as cigarettes, decreases, while the number of jobs producing things that we now have a greater fancy for, such as exercise gear, increases. Perhaps the major source of job destruction and creation is technological innovation. In the early 1900s automobiles famously destroyed jobs for buggy-whip makers and blacksmiths. Starting in the 1980s, personal computers and email killed jobs for stenographers and document deliverers. Today, A.T.M.s and online banking apps are eliminating jobs for bank tellers. Yet despite these and innumerable other innovations that caused the demise of particular jobs, the number of jobs in the United States economy is today higher than ever — and contrary to popular myth, the earnings of ordinary Americans recently hit an all-time high. The reason is that job destruction in a market economy is also job creation. When consumers buy less of a particular product, they spend or invest more money elsewhere, thus creating not only new and better products but also new jobs. Consumers’ freedom to change how they spend their money prompts entrepreneurs and investors to produce things that consumers value most highly, and to do so as efficiently as possible. The result is economic growth. Fears of losing jobs to trade are inconsistent with our larger embrace of innovation and competition. More ominously, given that trade-induced job losses are a tiny portion of all job losses, such fears are wildly overblown — so much so that they now have America and the world on the brink of a potentially calamitous trade war. And all for naught. President Trump’s protectionism will simply not create the multitude of jobs that its champions predict. Far worse, however, is the fact that the longer we tolerate this hostility to one particular source of economic change and growth, the more likely we are to grow hostile to technological innovation and other more significant sources of economic change and growth. And it would then become impossible to make America great again. Donald J. Boudreaux is a professor of economics and a senior fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:42 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN FRANCISCO —  Three users of the Facebook Messenger app sued Facebook on Tuesday, saying the social network violated their privacy by collecting logs of their phone calls and text messages, in the latest legal challenge facing the company. The U.S. lawsuit filed in federal court in the Northern District of California seeks status as a class action on behalf of all affected users and asks for unspecified damages. A Facebook representative could not immediately be reached for comment. Facebook, which is reeling from a scandal over its handling of personal data, on Sunday acknowledged that it had been logging some users' call and text history but said it had done so only when users of the Android operating system had opted in. Facebook said on Sunday that it does not collect the content of calls or text messages, and that information is securely stored. The data is not sold to third parties, it said. Android is owned by Alphabet Inc's Google, which is not named as a defendant in the suit. (Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Sandra Maler) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:57 A.M. E.D.T.
 BEIJING —  U.S. short-term rental service Airbnb Inc said it would start disclosing host information to Chinese government agencies starting on Friday, as the San Francisco-based company complies with regulations in China. China's strict regulations on residency require citizens and tourists to register their addresses with the police when they arrive in the country or stay at a hotel, within 24 hours. The changes come after Airbnb shuttered its service for a month in Beijing while the country's annual parliament was in session, a time of increased surveillance targeting dissidents and migrants. Airbnb China said in an email to hosts reviewed by Reuters that the decision is "similar to other hospitality companies that do business in China," and users with concerns can deactivate their listings. Advertisement "Airbnb China must comply with local laws and regulations, including privacy and information disclosure laws," it said. Advertisement Airbnb did not respond to a request for comment on the specific disclosures, but a spokesman said that it complies with China's laws.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In late 2016, Airbnb moved to store its data in China to meet the country's requirements, sparking concern that user data would be compromised. It also launched a separate Chinese business to comply with the law. China introduced a strict new cybersecurity law last year that requires foreign and local tech firms to store Chinese data locally and offer technical support to authorities who wish to access it. Airbnb is expanding in China amid stiff competition from Chinese rivals Tujia.com and Xiaozhu.com, which also comply with the strict regulations and shutter their services during politically sensitive events. (Reporting by Pei Li and Cate Cadell; Editing by Jacqueline Wong) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 8:35 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN FRANCISCO —  Three users of the Facebook Messenger app sued Facebook on Tuesday, saying the social network violated their privacy by collecting logs of their phone calls and text messages, in the latest legal challenge facing the company. The U.S. lawsuit filed in federal court in the Northern District of California seeks status as a class action on behalf of all affected users and asks for unspecified damages. A Facebook representative could not immediately be reached for comment. Facebook, which is reeling from a scandal over its handling of personal data, on Sunday acknowledged that it had been logging some users' call and text history but said it had done so only when users of the Android operating system had opted in. Facebook said on Sunday that it does not collect the content of calls or text messages, and that information is securely stored. The data is not sold to third parties, it said. Android is owned by Alphabet Inc's Google, which is not named as a defendant in the suit. (Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Sandra Maler) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 11:08 P.M. E.D.T.
 WELLINGTON, New Zealand —  New Zealand's privacy commissioner said Wednesday that Facebook broke the law by not releasing information to a man who wanted to know what others were saying about him on the social network. Commissioner John Edwards said Facebook refused the man access to personal information that was held on the accounts of several Facebook users. Edwards said the company claimed it wasn't bound by New Zealand's privacy laws and didn't have to comply with a request from his office to take a look at the disputed information. Facebook said Edwards had made a "broad and intrusive" request for private data, and that the company was protecting its users. "We are disappointed that the New Zealand privacy commissioner asked us to provide access to a year's worth of private data belonging to several people and then criticized us for protecting their privacy," the company said in a statement. Advertisement The commissioner's finding allows the man to seek financial damages against Facebook. The man wasn't named and it wasn't immediately clear whether he would pursue damages. Advertisement The case also raises jurisdictional questions. Edwards said Facebook should comply by New Zealand laws but the company was arguing it's not bound by them because its operation is based in Ireland.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Edwards said Facebook has 2.5 million users in New Zealand, about half of the nation's population, and that it takes money from New Zealand businesses. "We don't believe there's any credible question that it's operating in New Zealand and is subject to New Zealand laws," he said. Facebook didn't address the jurisdictional question in its statement. The company said it had investigated the man's complaint but hadn't got enough detail to resolve it. Facebook said it scrutinized all requests to disclose personal data, particularly the contents of private messages, and would continue to challenge those that were too broad. "We have a long history of working with the commissioner, and we will continue to request information that will help us investigate this complaint further," the company said. One course of action for Facebook would be to challenge the commissioner's findings in court. The company did not immediately respond to questions about whether it would pursue legal action. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By SARAH MASLIN NIRMARCH 28, 2018
 If train signals are one of the principal ailments afflicting the New York City subway system, then how often do the antiquated mechanisms, some of which date back to the Truman White House, fail? That question is surprisingly hard to answer given the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s quixotic bookkeeping on the subject: It sometimes singles out signals as the cause of delays, but at other times lumps them into other and broader categories of problems. One place that routinely reports when signals are on the fritz: @NYCTSubway, New York City Transit’s twitter account. 
            Canarsie bound L trains are running with delays because of signal problems at Atlantic Av.         Now, a city councilman, Brad Lander, frustrated at what he believes is a lack of transparency by the agency that runs the subways, has embarked on an effort to get a more comprehensive picture of how often signals fail. The M.T.A. does report signal failures on its online dashboard, but only when they are the root cause of delays that affect 50 or more trains. Advertisement So Mr. Lander asked his staff to use the transit system’s Twitter account to come up with his own count. Based on what is an admittedly unscientific survey, in a report released this week, Mr. Lander’s office found that the account sent out tweets about 479 signal failures of all sizes from December through February. On its website, the M.T.A., hewing to its own criteria of when to list signal failures posted such breakdowns 66 times during the same time period. Advertisement “We can’t possibly develop a real plan to fix what ails the subway if we’re not being honest about what’s broken,” said Mr. Lander, a Democrat who represents parts of Brooklyn. M.T.A. officials scoffed at Mr. Lander’s criticism, noting that the agency is being transparent about signal problems since it is the one revealing them on Twitter as they happen. And in response to a request from The Times for a more thorough accounting, the transit agency provided what it said was a complete list of signal-related delays for last December and January. February numbers were not yet available. The final tally? Signal issues delayed 11,555 trains. The divergence from Mr. Lander’s count is partly explained by the fact that the agency tabulates individual trains impacted by signal troubles, while the agency’s Twitter feed focuses on a broken signal, which can affect many trains on multiple lines. But the confusion over what role signals play in the subway’s dismal performance underscores the ongoing debate — and news media scrutiny — over the data that the M.T.A. provides the public and how upfront it has been about identifying the causes of riders’ upended commutes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Being candid, we have archaic systems, multiple sources of the truth, databases galore, but it is very hard to pin down and get from multiple sources, true data,” said Andy Byford, the president of New York City Transit, which runs the subway and public buses. Mr. Byford has already expressed his belief that blaming delays on “overcrowding,” is woefully imprecise, and not in fact, a root cause of delays. Mr. Byford said he had commissioned a review of the terminology the agency uses such as what constitutes a major delay or a power-related failure, and how it categorizes the various causes of delays. “There is a huge amount of data to crunch and properly categorize,” Mr. Byford said. “But that doesn’t mean we are not fixing the right things. We must tackle equipment that we know is failing, but then also categorize these failures in an appropriate manner.” For Mr. Lander’s report, the data was collected by a social media bot that scraped digital information from the subway’s Twitter feed and downloaded each mention of a signal failure into a spreadsheet. Anna Levers, the councilman’s policy director, then pored over the data to cull any duplicated tweets or tweets the bot may have pulled in error. She then cross-referenced each delay with the subway stop nearest to where it occurred. Next, based on M.T.A. data on hourly ridership numbers at subway stops across the city, Ms. Levers estimated how many riders were likely impacted by each delay. She posted her estimates periodically over the past few months on SignalFail.com. Advertisement For the three month period, using these methods, she estimated that 11.1 million riders were delayed by the signal failures the subway’s Twitter feed reported. Of course, this analysis falls far short of any sort of reliability or scientific standard, Ms. Levers said, which was part of the point of the exercise. “It’s best information we have to go on, and which is in part what we are objecting to,” Ms. Levers said. “It’s ridiculous that the way users are getting real time/real-time feedback in performance is by me scraping data from a Twitter feed.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By INYOUNG KANG and CHARLES McDERMIDMARCH 28, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  • Confident, reasonable — willing to bargain. That’s how North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, came across in his debut as a global statesman — and he did so with a dash of mystery. Here’s how the Chinese and North Korean news media portrayed the meeting with President Xi Jinping. Mr. Kim’s two-day visit — his first trip abroad since taking power — was a reminder of how much he has set the agenda in the North Korean nuclear crisis and, our correspondent writes, what a strong hand he has going into negotiations. President Trump was quick to chime in. He posted on Twitter that Mr. Xi told him that the meeting went “very well” and that Mr. Kim “looks forward to his meeting with me.” Advertisement _____ • Beijing  adjusted the optics in other areas, too. One of China’s biggest financial crimes trials intensified when the founder of Anbang Insurance, Wu Xiaohui, pleaded not guilty to bilking investors out of more than $10 billion. The surprise plea raises the stakes in a prosecution meant to show Beijing’s determination to crack down on a recent borrowing binge. Advertisement And in the coastal city of Xiamen, the Chinese authorities are trying to keep an underground bishop, Guo Xijin, out of the spotlight Easter weekend. Bishop Guo is at the center of a deal between Beijing and the Vatican — one that requires him to step aside in favor of a Communist Party-approved bishop. Above, Easter Mass at an unofficial church last year in Hebei Province. _____ • In Melbourne, the committal hearing of Cardinal George Pell is expected to adjourn today. The cardinal, the Catholic Church’s third highest-ranking priest, has been charged with committing “historical sexual offenses.” Courtroom drama on Wednesday: The magistrate asked Cardinal Pell’s lawyer to stop shouting at her, then she denied his request that she recuse herself from the case. Australia’s legal restrictions prevent the details of the Pell case from being made public. Once the hearing is adjourned, the magistrate is expected to announce her decision in mid-April. _____ • Myanmar has  a new president, but he’ll still be No. 2. U Win Myint, above, is a longtime loyalist to the country’s civilian leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, who is prohibited from serving as president. Mr. Win Myint is expected to do her bidding in the largely ceremonial post. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace laureate, has been condemned globally for the Myanmar military’s ethnic cleansing of Rohingya Muslims. _____ • Is your waiter rude, or just French? Few cultural stereotypes are more pervasive than the surly French garçon. That perception was even used as a defense in a recent wrongful termination suit in Canada. Advertisement A French waiter who was fired for being combative and aggressive said his former bosses were discriminating against his culture and heritage. • Last week, we wrote about income inequality, focusing on how black boys and white boys raised in wealthy U.S. families fare as adults. Here are income mobility charts for Asian-Americans and other groups, and a tool to make your own comparisons. • Facebook will introduce a centralized system for its users to control their privacy and security settings in response to an outcry over the way it has handled personal data. • An advertising group that gave Cambridge Analytica a gold prize for its work for the Trump campaign is now urging marketers to reconsider the ethics of how consumer information is collected. (It has yet to rescind the award.) • Israel’s national airline, El Al, is suing the Israeli government and Air India for discrimination after Air India became the first commercial airline permitted to fly over Saudi Arabia to and from Israel. • U.S. stocks were mixed. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Beijing and parts of northern China have been smothered by a sandstorm that pushed the air quality index to hazardous levels. Above, Harbin on Wednesday. [Reuters] • Atlanta’s city government has been brought to its knees since March 22 by a ransomware attack — one of the most sustained and consequential cyberattacks ever mounted against a major U.S. city. [The New York Times] • In Egypt, it’s $3 a vote. With no real challenger in this week’s election, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi is cajoling, coercing and even paying voters to ensure a credible turnout. [The New York Times] Advertisement • A children’s book listing Hitler as a “great leader” has been removed from an Indian publisher’s website. [The New York Times] • In Cambodia, Prime Minister Hun Sen boasted that when it comes to negotiating skills, no one “is better than me in the history of world leaders.” (In the same speech, he refused to negotiate with opposition lawmakers.) [The Phnom Penh Post] • Australia’s indigenous languages are all derived from one common tongue, a new study shows. [SBS] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Being a wedding guest can get pricey. Here’s how to cut costs. • Have a tiny apartment? These are the best cleaning tools for a small space. • Recipe of the day: If you’re looking for big flavor, a chicken tagine is just what you need. • As the art world’s center of gravity shifts toward Asia, Art Basel Hong Kong is a platform for sales and access to collectors. But for some local galleries, the price to participate is too high. Above, “Black Glass Sun” by Olafur Eliason. • She felt let down by the way some magazines portrayed Asian cuisines — so she started her own. As the publishing industry struggles, a new generation of food magazines is depicting stories that have been overlooked or misrepresented. • And in this week’s Australia Diary, a multicultural group of friends gathered for a Hindu celebration of an important milestone: the first home purchase. Advertisement On this day in 1961, the 23rd Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was approved by the required three-fourths of the states, giving Washingtonians the right to vote for president and vice president for the first time in more than 160 years. “The United States finally gave its capital the vote today,” The Times noted on its front page, with a hint of impatience. The amendment granted representation to the District of Columbia in the Electoral College, where states are given electors based on population. Although the District’s population (estimated at about 700,000 in 2017) is larger than that of some states, it is given no more electors than the least populous state, which is currently Wyoming. At the time, the push to give the vote to the District, with its large African-American population, became caught up in the civil rights movement. The amendment was opposed in the South, where Tennessee was the only state to ratify it. Democrats have since been able to count on the District’s three electoral votes, which have been cast for each of the party’s presidential candidates, starting with Lyndon Johnson in 1964. Although the District’s residents have a say at the White House, they lack a full voice in Congress, where their representative does not have full voting rights. Chris Stanford contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.  And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.  Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Doug Glanville If you’ve ever been a professional baseball player, you know that every year for spring training you arrive at camp with a host of teammates you’ve never played with before. You may know them as opponents, or maybe you know nothing at all. In such situations it’s easy to default to the simplicity and comfort of one’s assumptions. And to be consistent with the preferred evaluative framework of baseball is to judge by the numbers: You can determine someone’s level of discipline by his on-base percentage, say, or his precision by his strikeout-to-walk ratio. But metrics won’t tell us what kind of teammate he will be. The new season is here and 30 major league teams have finalized their rosters. Each will contain 25 players from a variety of backgrounds. In my first spring training with the Chicago Cubs, my locker in the clubhouse physically placed me between the quiet strength of the Hall of Famer Ryne Sandberg, who advised through action and a whisper, and the exploding intensity of Randy Myers, an avid fan of military equipment (including the Hummer he drove before it turned “luxury”), whose locker was full of Tasers and camouflage gear. Both were All-Stars; you wanted both on your team. We also had the vociferous Shawon Dunston, an African-American Brooklyn native who spoke plainly and directly on issues, which often caught the attention of the Caucasian So-Cal dude Mark Grace. Their epic debates were conducted with a mutual respect and genuine brotherhood, even though one could be seen as the photographic negative of the other. They were teammates who respected the game and each other, and I learned from both. (Shawon taught me about hustling on every at-bat, no matter how many hits you got that day, and Mark taught me about finding advantages, right down to using the shadows in a day game to see where the catcher was setting up, which helped anticipate the location of the coming pitch.) It was years of being on teams — some successful, many not — that gave me empirical evidence about how they were constructed. Many experts have since tried to quantify chemistry, or come up with a formula that makes up championship locker rooms. Yet no algorithm can explain why in 2002 many of my Phillies teammates and team officials made a two-hour trip to pay their respects at my father’s funeral. Or why Jim Thome — now a newly minted Hall of Famer — celebrated his 400th home run in 2004 by popping champagne with all of us Phillies, making us feel like we’d all helped him achieve that milestone. Assessing a player is complicated, especially without the context that comes with daily engagement, and the assumptions we make are not just statistical but cultural — even when we know, for instance, that being from Mexico is not the same thing as being from Venezuela, no matter who we lump into the category “Latin American.” So the player from Santo Domingo, in the Dominican Republic, the player from rural Nebraska and the player from Detroit all evoke certain preconceived notions. Today especially, in much of our American stereotypical box-checking discourse on identity, those geographic and cultural truths can prevent us from seeing the frequent counternarratives to our biases, those revealed from real intimacy and consistent proximity through a unified goal. Team discord is sowed when we are reduced to living exit polls, tied to a sound bite or the color of a state. But I have found that baseball at its best is better than that. It is tempting in a hyper-responsive and reactionary world to take a data point and extrapolate. Today it’s not enough to have information; we need to assign it meaning in real time. We must name people’s tunes in one note, even when they were about to play you their entire composition anyway. We are effectively giving a pitcher a Cy Young Award after one outing, or handing over the Gold Glove Award after one spectacular catch. And that is only the positive side of such premature judgment. By the time a season comes to a close, every player will have reached a new set of conclusions about his teammates — for better or worse. We will have found out who we want on the mound for the big game, who outworks everyone else in the weight room, who treats our family like his own even when the camera is not rolling, who would play hurt and run through a wall to make that great catch. There are few places to hide our real selves, and our biases are constantly being challenged, even negated. So when we focus purely on the game at hand, on the field, give me Curt Schilling (society’s box: white, privileged, alt-right conservative) to pitch Game 7, Kenny Lofton (society’s box: flashy, radical, outspoken black guy) to lead off and Bobby Abreu (society’s box: nonchalant, sports-car-driving Latino) to get on base by bat or by walk. Being on a team means that information is always coming in under the game’s requirement to be productive every day. Conversely, a season, not just an at-bat, or a half-inning, shows us, unequivocally, that we need the full breadth of time to really learn the mettle of a person. Without this repeated exposure, it’s hard for us to reconcile why the Dominican legend Sammy Sosa listened to Whitney Houston on loop (music that came after her hit-making years) in the Cubs clubhouse, or how Bruce Chen (who, with his Chinese heritage, physically fits our “Asian” box) could actually be from Panama and, of course, be fluent in Spanish. We learn, also, why the world stops for all players when we lose one of our baseball brothers — like the breathlessness I felt when Darryl Kile, who I didn’t even know, passed away in his hotel room one season. Or how, despite the complicated politics around Cuba and the United States, it moved many of us to tears when our teammate Eddie Oropesa, who had defected from Cuba, finally made it to the major leagues and reunited with his family in the dugout. That day, we learned about risk and sacrifice through the road he’d traveled. On every roster this Opening Day, there will be a rookie. Scared about his future, scared about his family, but open to input. He represents opportunity — not only his professional opportunity but also a cultural one for the rest of us. The daily experiences that he will have now, set on common ground with common goals, will reveal to him what really counts in a teammate and a person. It’s an environment that gives intimacy a chance to inform him about people, as opposed to a clickable universe of labels and boxes. Doug Glanville (@dougglanville), a former professional baseball player, is the author of “The Game From Where I Stand” and a contributing opinion writer. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:32 P.M. E.D.T.
 MOSCOW —  Moscow's relations with the West may have sunk to a new post-Cold War low, but foreign appetite for Russian bonds is yet to be significantly dented and local firms' overseas capital-raising plans are still set to go ahead. Russia's already-fraught ties with the West have soured further after London accused it of poisoning former double-agent Sergei Skripal in Britain this month, leading to countries around the world expelling scores of Russian diplomats. Russia denies the accusation and has expelled some British diplomats in retaliation. So far though, the tensions do not seem to have spooked investors too much - a far cry from 2014 when stinging economic sanctions imposed on Moscow after its annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region led to foreign investors fleeing Russian markets, triggering a near-collapse of the rouble. On Wednesday, Russia's finance ministry took in bids of over 75 billion roubles at an auction of 30 billion roubles ($520 million) of treasury bonds. It was the first issue since the Western expulsions of Russian diplomats. The cut-off yield on the eight-year paper was 6.79 percent, down from 6.86 percent at the previous sale in late February. Advertisement The market "seems inclined to look past this episode in terms of impact on local assets," said Phoenix Kalen, a strategist at Societe Generale in London, referring to the latest diplomatic spat between the West and Russia. Advertisement The ministry did not say what percentage of the bids were submitted by foreign investors, who tend to buy Russian bonds - or OFZs - in the secondary market from Russian banks. One sweetener for them is that Russian bonds pay real -- or inflation-adjusted -- yields of almost 5 percent, well above those offered by most other big emerging economies. (GRAPHIC - Emerging Markets Real Yields: https://reut.rs/2I7tAhx) Russia's portion of the GBI-EM index for local currency emerging debt has brought returns of 4.4 percent so far this year in dollar terms, according to JPMorgan, which told clients on Wednesday it was staying "overweight" on OFZ. If anything, OFZ securities have become even more alluring after S&P Global's decision last month to raise the country's credit rating back to investment grade. That for many may outweigh geopolitics, while President Vladimir Putin's recent re-election may also have assured some investors of political continuity in the country. Analysts said Russian government debt is still seen as a relatively safe bet due to low default risk - Moscow has more than $450 billion in foreign currency reserves - and also because even extended Western sanctions do not affect sovereign debt. And with the central bank steadily cutting interest rates, foreigners' holdings of OFZ bonds stood at nearly $40 billion, or 33.9 percent of all OFZ bonds as of Feb. 1, the last period for which data is available. A year ago, they held $28 billion, or 28.1 percent. Advertisement "The market is not too concerned from a rates angle, just because of the inflation story, there is no risk to it. The U.S. Treasury...made it clear they are not looking to ban any trading on sovereign debt, including OFZs," said Kaan Nazli, senior economist for emerging debt at asset manager Neuberger Berman. As proof that foreigners remain unfazed by the diplomatic spat, Russia trumpeted a $4 billion dollar bond sale on March 16 at a yield well below what was originally indicated, just days after the attack on Skripal and his daughter.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Moscow said 49 percent of the Eurobond issue maturing in 2047 was purchased by Britain-based investors. SOME JITTERS There are however some signs of jitters. The premium demanded by investors to hold Russian sovereign dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries has risen to the highest since mid-December, up some 25 basis points this month. Kalen of SocGen said the diplomatic spat could in the longer-term "weigh on the narrative" for Russia. For now though, Russian companies look set to proceed with plans to raise capital overseas. European Medical Center, one of Moscow's largest private healthcare providers, is still set for a stock market listing in May or June, possibly in London, two Moscow-based sources said. "All these expulsions are rather a formality which creates a lot of noise," a banker based in Moscow said. Bankers said local investment banking activity has not stalled, as it did in 2014 when the annexation of Crimea came alongside a huge oil price drop. Crude futures are currently around $70 a barrel, supporting Russian finances. "There is not yet any noticeable reaction in the markets. The sentiment is negative but I think we have seen worse... Step-by-step work (on share listing) is continuing," said another Moscow-based banker. Advertisement A Moscow initial public offering (IPO) of information technology services company IBS is still expected in April. Banking sources say insurer RESO is also considering an IPO next month, while state-run leasing company STLC - which failed to place a dollar bond in February - has hired banks to market another deal, now expected after Easter. As far as investor demand for such offerings is concerned, it is too early to gauge the impact, three London-based capital markets bankers said. One of them said soaring demand for the recent Russian Eurobond issue demonstrated appetite for Russian assets. The crisis has not affected any of the Russian deals his bank was working on, he added, speaking on condition of anonymity. Gold producer Polyus which listed shares in London last year , held an investor day in London this month, telling investors it would consider boosting its free float to 25-30 percent from the current 16 percent. But the decision depended at least partly on geopolitics, it added. (Reporting by Olga Popova in Moscow and Dasha Afanasieva in London; Additional reportin by Karin Strohecker in London, Polina Devitt and Oksana Kobzeva in Moscow; Writing by Andrey Ostroukh; Editing by Sujata Rao and Hugh Lawson) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:12 A.M. E.D.T.
 SINGAPORE —  European trader Vitol is storing gasoline on tankers offshore Singapore, Asia's biggest oil trading centre, for the first time since 2016 amid oversupply and weak demand for the fuel, said four people that participate in the market on Wednesday. The sources said that Vitol was seen storing gasoline aboard more than one so-called Long-Range (LR) tanker. The company does not typically comment on its trading operations. At least one of the vessels is the tanker Glory Crescent, a so-called LR-2 tanker, said one of the four sources. The vessel is 105,000 deadweight tonnes and could carry the equivalent of about 800,000 barrels of gasoline. Advertisement According to data on Thomson Reuters Eikon, the Glory Crescent was fixed on Feb. 27 by a charterer that was not revealed for a one- to two-month time charter for storage. Advertisement The Aframax LR-2 vessel is currently at anchor offshore the city-state, the data show. Since the start of 2018, gasoline market has been in a contango structure, where front-month prices are lower than later-dated prices which is indicative of a weak market. This month, the contango between March and April prices widened to as much as 50 cents a barrel. <MOG92SGSDMc0> Typically, traders can store fuel in a contango market in expectation of the later rising prices, but the current contango does not justify, according to the sources. "The contango is not wide enough to encourage storing gasoline but Vitol may have its own economics for doing so," said one of the sources.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In 2016, traders including Vitol, Unipec, Total and Gunvor were storing gasoline aboard vessels off Singapore as the contango deepened to $1 a barrel. So far, Vitol is the only company storing fuel, the sources said. They were not expecting more to follow suit, although the market remained saddled with supplies despite recent refinery outages in Taiwan and ongoing refinery maintenance in North Asia. The latest data from Singapore's International Enterprise (IE) showed that onshore light distillates stocks held in the week to Tuesday were at a record of 15.635 million barrels. Over in Europe Gunvor, Litasco, Trafigura, Socar as well as Vitol had already used vessels to store gasoline this month following slow demand for petrol from the United States. "Refinery runs in the Atlantic Basin are at elevated levels, despite turnaround activities ... This had a cascading effect on Singapore cracks as the U.S. still sets the tone for regional gasoline cracks," said Sri Paravaikkarasu of FGE. Overall, gasoline demand in Asia this year is expected to lag 2017, she added. The gasoline crack refers to the profit from refining a barrel of oil into petrol. <GL92-SIN-CRK> Advertisement (Additional reporting by Jessica Jaganathan; Editing by Christian Schmollinger) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Lindy West Ricky Gervais, the British comedian, does not care what you say about him on Twitter. He does not care if you are offended. He does not care if you hate the latest joke he told about rape, or the Bible, or Caitlyn Jenner, or Hitler or your child’s fatal peanut allergy. And just to make sure you’re crystal clear on all of the tweets he does not remotely care about, he has built his new Netflix stand-up special, “Ricky Gervais: Humanity,” around them — these negligible tweets, the droning of gnats, several years of which he appears to have accidentally screen-grabbed and saved to his phone. (Ricky Gervais: Butterfingers!) Similarly, I don’t care about Formula One racing, which is why I’m working on a tight 75-minute act about the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. Gervais seems to care quite intensely, of course, which is natural. It would be grotesque, inhuman, not to care. Absorbing critique on a scale as vast as Gervais’s Twitter feed (13.1 million followers), whether the specific critiques are warranted or not, is objectively grueling. Stand-up comedy is vulnerable and hard. Twitter is awful. Devoid of context, Gervais’s bravado might be sympathetic, a relatable if tedious coping mechanism. As Gervais himself helpfully points out in “Humanity,” however, nothing can truly be divorced from context. So here’s some context for you: Last week, the secretary of housing and urban development, Ben Carson, testified in front of a House subcommittee that trans women in homeless shelters make cisgender women “not comfortable.” According to a 2016 survey by the National Center for Transgender Equality, 20 percent of trans people report having been homeless at some point because of their gender identity, 55 percent report being harassed by homeless shelter residents and staff, and 29 percent have been turned away from shelters for being trans. Meanwhile, on Netflix, Gervais graphically speculated about Caitlyn Jenner’s gender confirmation surgery, repeatedly referred to her as a big strong man, relentlessly called her by her pre-transition name and compared gender dysphoria to a human choosing to identify as a chimpanzee. That is the context within which Gervais insists he doesn’t care about critiques of his work — critiques pointing out that describing trans women as goofy, freaky, delusional men who’ve just “popped on a dress” isn’t edgy or cheeky, it’s dangerous. Giggling at the “weirdness” of trans people — presenting your spasms of discomfort as something relatable — makes it harder for trans people to find a safe place to sleep. Transphobia is not a pet issue of the hypersensitive but a continuing international emergency. And sure, some critiques are silly or bad. Public opinion is a numbers game: Distribute your work to a large enough sample and you’ll accrue people who love you, which is intoxicating, but also people who don’t, which is painful. You’ll find some who get the jokes but hate them anyway and some who hate you without even bothering to watch. This doesn’t actually say much about humanity except that it is vast and varied. Yet, out of this data set, some comedians and their fans seem determined to gerrymander an epidemic of bowdlerization. “People see something they don’t like and they expect it to stop,” Gervais says in “Humanity.” “The world is getting worse. Don’t get me wrong, I think I’ve lived through the best 50 years of humanity. 1960 through 2015, the peak of civilization for everything. For tolerances, for freedoms, for communication, for medicine! And now it’s going the other way a little bit.” “Dumpster fire” has emerged as the favorite emblem of our present moment, but that Gervais quote feels both more apt and more tragic a metaphor: The Trump/Brexit era is a rich, famous, white, middle-aged man declaring the world to be in decline the moment he stops understanding it. Gervais is not alone in presenting himself as a noble bulwark against a wave of supposed left-wing censorship. (A Netflix special, for the record, is not what “silencing” looks like.) We’ve heard similar sentiments from hand-wringers across the political spectrum who insist that overzealous, “politically correct” college activists are strangling academia. We’ve heard it from pundits and politicians who insist that white men were so victimized by the “sensitivity” of marginalized people, they had no choice but to vote for Donald Trump. Men who scream “snowflake” at rape victims feel so wounded by even minor critiques that they have been re-litigating the same arguments about “offense” and “free speech” for decades. What they’re actually reacting to is the message deep at the heart of the March for Our Lives, of Black Lives Matter, of the Women’s March: The world is bigger than you, and it belongs to us too. If you’ve spent any time with Gervais’s work beyond “The Office” and “Extras,” you know that the man is obsessed with evolution. His 2003 stand-up special was about animals; his 2010 special was called “Science”; in 2009 and 2010 he released special episodes of his podcast, The Ricky Gervais Show, devoted to natural history, the human body, the earth. On their Xfm radio show in the early 2000s, Gervais and his co-host, Stephen Merchant, did a recurring segment called “Do We Need ’Em?” in which the producer, Karl Pilkington, chose an animal he found strange or useless (jellyfish, for instance) and interviewed a scientist about whether or not we should “keep” them. “What are they adding to the world?” he once asked Gervais and Merchant about giraffes. “What are they doing?” Gervais explained that species aren’t here because they add something to the world. They weren’t chosen by a benevolent creator; they aren’t the most beautiful or the strongest or the most beneficial to the whole. They just didn’t die. They survived to pass on their genetic material, and that’s it. That’s evolution. The world thunders on, with or without you. Adapt or perish. It’s baffling that Gervais can have so much reverence for physical evolution and so little for intellectual evolution. He might find trans people silly, but you know who doesn’t? Teenagers. I remember the first gay kiss on TV, and I am only 36 years old; my kids think I must be lying. My husband, a stand-up comic, used to do a bit about a Comcast commercial in which a woman goes on a date with a little green alien; at the time, interracial human couples were taboo in advertising. That joke doesn’t work anymore, because the world changed, and it’s going to keep changing. It is frightening, I assume, when you are accustomed to being not just a voice of authority in your field but the archetype of authority in your civilization, to be challenged and feel those challenges stick. I’m being hard on Ricky Gervais not because his attitude is extraordinary but because it is common. Not because I think he and the other ostensibly left-leaning men who succumb to this trap are just like Trump, but because I believe they aren’t. Or they don’t have to be. You can choose to be permeable, to be curious, to be the one that didn’t die. Lindy West is the author of “Shrill: Notes From a Loud Woman” and a contributing opinion writer. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:35 P.M. E.D.T.
 DUBAI —  Kuwait's stock market will enter FTSE Russell's emerging market index in two equal stages in September and December this year, and 10 Kuwaiti stocks currently look likely to join the benchmark, the company said on Wednesday. FTSE announced in September that it planned to classify Kuwait as an emerging market; it released details of the transition on Wednesday. Kuwaiti stocks entering the index will be given 50 percent of their weightings in September and the remaining 50 percent in December. FTSE projected that Kuwait would have a total 0.4 percent weighting in the index. It published an indicative list of the 10 stocks that would join the index based on data at the end of the last year, ranging from National Bank of Kuwait to small caps such as Alimtiaz Investment Group. It will publish a confirmed list of stocks on Aug. 24. Also on Wednesday, FTSE announced that it would include Saudi Arabia in its emerging market index starting March 2019. (Reporting by Andrew Torchia; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:09 P.M. E.D.T.
 U.S. stock indexes struggled to find direction Wednesday, ending the choppy day of trading with a loss for the second straight day. The latest market decline was modest compared with the previous day's steep drop, but both were largely driven by a sell-off in technology stocks. Losses in Amazon, Netflix and other consumer-focused companies also weighed on the market Wednesday. Energy stocks fell in tandem with crude oil prices. Those losses outweighed gains by drugstore chains, health care companies and other stocks. Despite a crop of strong company earnings and market-boosting corporate deal news, traders continued to wrestle with the potential implications of negative headlines swirling around several big-name stocks, including Amazon, Facebook and Tesla. "The news continues to be volatile and the markets are just highly sensitive to it in a way that they weren't sensitive to it last year," said Tom Martin, senior portfolio manager with Globalt Investments. "We've forgotten that this is more like the way things are, that markets do react to news that comes in." Advertisement The benchmark S&P 500 index lost 7.62 points, or 0.3 percent, at 2,605. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 9.29 points, or 0.04 percent, to 23,848.42. The Nasdaq composite slid 59.58 points, or 0.8 percent, to 6,949.23. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks lost 0.54 points, or 0.04 percent, to 1,513.03. More stocks rose than fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Advertisement Bond prices were little changed. The yield on the 10-year Treasury held at 2.78 percent. The major stock indexes wobbled between gains and losses for much of the day as investors weighed the latest developments with some of the market's biggest names. Facebook, which has taken a beating in recent days over privacy concerns, reflected the broader movement of the market, dipping into the red at times before eking out a small gain. The social media giant said early Wednesday it would give its privacy tools a makeover. The move is a response to criticisms over its data practices and the prospect of tighter European regulations in the coming months. The stock gained 81 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $153.03. Software company Red Hat was the technology sector's biggest decliner, sliding $8.22, or 5.3 percent, to $146.20. "Tech has had such a tremendous run-up and has outperformed some of the other sectors," said Erik Davidson, chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank. "There may be other areas now that are more attractive, and we've seen some strength recently in some of the more defensive-oriented sectors." Investors also fretted about Amazon after Axios, citing anonymous sources, reported Wednesday that President Donald Trump has wondered aloud if there was a way to "go after" Amazon with antitrust or competition law. Amazon has long been a target of Trump, who has tweeted in the past that the online retailer didn't pay enough taxes or needed to pay the U.S. post office more for handling shipments. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos also personally owns The Washington Post, which Trump has labeled "fake news" when unfavorable stories are written about him or his administration. Shares in the e-commerce giant fell $65.63, or 4.4 percent, to $1,431.42.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Netflix also declined, shedding $14.92, or 5 percent, to $285.77. Tesla tumbled 7.7 percent after Moody's downgraded the electric car maker's credit rating. The move piles more pain on Tesla, whose stock has been pummeled by news that authorities will investigate a fatal crash that involved a Tesla electric SUV equipped with a semi-autonomous control system. The stock lost $21.40 to $257.78. Investors welcomed strong quarterly report cards from Walgreens Boots Alliance, Lululemon Athletica and RH, the operator of Restoration Hardware. Advertisement Walgreens gained 2.5 percent after the largest U.S. drugstore chain reported quarterly earnings and revenue that came in ahead of analysts' forecasts. The stock rose $1.63 to $67.59. Investors also bid up shares in CVS Health, which climbed $2.11, or 3.5 percent, to $62.71. Lululemon jumped 9.2 percent after the seller of premium yoga wear reported strong results for its fourth quarter and also released an upbeat outlook. The stock gained $7.25 to $85.96. Shares in RH vaulted 22.5 percent after the home furnishings retailer reported earnings that easily beat analysts' forecasts. The stock rose $16.93 to $92.24. Irish drugmaker Shire Plc jumped 12.2 percent after Japanese rival Takeda said it's considering a takeover offer. Takeda said that buying Shire would enhance its R&D and its reach into the U.S. Shire's U.S.-listed shares climbed $15.66 to $144.53. Benchmark U.S. crude lost 87 cents, or 1.3 percent, to settle at $64.38 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 58 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $69.53 per barrel in London. The slide in oil prices weighed on energy sector stocks. Occidental Petroleum gave up $2.67, or 4.1 percent, to $63.15. In other energy futures trading, heating oil dropped 1 cent to $2.01 a gallon. Wholesale gasoline was little changed at $2.01 a gallon. Natural gas dropped 2 cents to $2.70 per 1,000 cubic feet. The dollar rose to 106.88 yen from 105.54 yen Tuesday. The euro fell to $1.2313 from $1.2402. Gold fell $17.80, or 1.3 percent, to $1,324.20 an ounce. Silver dropped 29 cents to $16.25 an ounce. Copper was little changed at $3 a pound. Major indexes in Europe finished mostly higher. Germany's DAX lost 0.3 percent, while France's CAC 40 gained 0.3 percent and Britain's FTSE 100 rose 0.6 percent. Indexes in Asia finished lower. Japan's Nikkei 225 sank 1.3 percent and South Korea's Kospi slid 1.3 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index slumped 2.5 percent. Stocks in Taiwan, Singapore and other Southeast Asian countries also fell. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
California Today  By                     
 JENNIFER MEDINA and
 

 THOMAS FULLER
 
MARCH 28, 2018
 Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Don’t write an obituary for the Orange Curtain just yet. For years, it seemed that the demographic change in Orange County might push the suburban enclave to shed its image as a conservative island. And in 2016, voters chose a Democrat candidate for president for the first time since the Great Depression. But now, political leaders there seem poised to reclaim their role as a counterpoint to much of the rest of California. On Tuesday, the county Board of Supervisors took two significant votes: One scrapped a previously approved plan to open temporary shelters for the homeless in the wealthy towns of Huntington Beach, Irvine and Laguna Niguel. In the other, the board voted to join a lawsuit from the Trump administration against California’s so-called sanctuary state law. Both votes from the all-Republican board were unanimous, though one member was not present. Thousands of people had shown up to voice their views on the divisive policies. The vote to join the federal government’s lawsuit against the state came just days after the Los Alamitos City Council adopted a measure to exempt itself from the new state law that strictly limits communication between local law enforcement and federal immigration officers. “We cannot let the state begin cherry-picking which federal laws it decides to follow,” Supervisor Michelle Steel said in a statement after the meeting. Immigrant rights advocates called the vote “shameful” and said they were “scapegoating our own communities.” Other opponents reminded the jurors that Orange County was a leader in backing Proposition 187, an anti-illegal immigrant measure that was later struck down by the courts. Advertisement The votes are not the only sign of backlash. Earlier this week, the Orange County Sheriff’s office said it would begin listing everyone scheduled to be released from jail on a public website, as a way to get around the state law restricting communication with Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers. Advertisement It is unclear how the county will now deal with the hundreds of people it forced out of a homeless encampment along the Santa Ana River earlier this year, but county leaders say they expect local leaders to discuss options at a court hearing on Tuesday. We want to hear from you: Do you think city and county governments have the right to challenge state laws? And do you see the recent battles as signs that California is not as liberal as many perceive it to be? The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • “You shoot us down, we shut you down!” Hundreds of protesters took over the main foyer at Sacramento City Hall on Tuesday evening to protest the death of Stephon Clark, who was fatally shot by two Sacramento police officers last week in his grandmother’s backyard. [The New York Times] • Attorney General Xavier Becerra said his office would step in to oversee the Stephon Clark investigation. [The New York Times] • Mark Zuckerberg has agreed to testify in at least one congressional hearing over Facebook’s handling of customer data. Mr. Zuckerberg has been asked to testify before Senate and House committees. [The New York Times] • California was among 12 states suing to block the Trump administration from adding a question about citizenship to the 2020 census, arguing that the change would cause fewer Americans to be counted. [The New York Times] • She disappeared Feb. 23 from her apartment in Los Angeles. The search for a Macedonian-born actress, Adea Shabani, ended Tuesday. The police believe they found her body in a nature preserve in Nevada County. [The New York Times] Advertisement • Jurors recommend the death penalty for Luis Bracamontes, a Mexican citizen who repeatedly entered the United States illegally before killing two Northern California deputies in a case highlighted by President Trump. [Associated Press] • San Diego County is considering placing bleeding control kits in public places to help save victims of mass shootings and other emergencies. The kits would include gloves, gauze for packing wounds and a tourniquet to stem bleeding, and are one component of a national awareness campaign called Stop the Bleed. [San Diego Union-Tribune] • “I know I will be criticized,” says the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, the Latino evangelical in Sacramento who advises President Trump on immigration. [The New York Times] • Uber says it is not renewing its permit to test self-driving vehicles in California until the police and regulators finish an investigation into how one of its autonomous vehicles struck and killed a woman in Arizona last week. [The New York Times] • The China-California connection. With a trade war looming, Washington and Beijing are battling over tariffs. Meanwhile, China and California have been trading notes about electric vehicles. China modeled its electric car program on California’s. [Bloomberg] • Researchers at Stanford University compared low-fat and low-carbohydrate diets in a big nutritional study. Conclusion: Eat sensibly. [The New York Times] • Foul territory: A sewage spill brought spring training to a premature end Tuesday night at Dodger Stadium. With two outs in the bottom of the fifth, the final exhibition game between the Angels and Dodgers was stopped. And a new expression was born: Let’s take a sludge check. [Associated Press via USA Today] Advertisement The drive-through lines at In-N-Out Burger, the pride of California fast food, can snake around the block. But there’s one customer the hamburger chain would rather do without. The Orange County Register reports that In-N-Out Burger is seeking a restraining order for Cody Roeder, a YouTube personality who posts videos under the name Trollmunchies. The lawsuit describes Mr. Roeder as a prankster who poses as the company’s chief executive and argues with employees. In the Burbank branch he picked apart a burger in the middle of the restaurant, claimed it was contaminated, and stepped on it theatrically. The lawsuit says Mr. Roeder caused “significant and irreparable” harm to the chain, which is seeking damages of more than $25,000. California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By SUI-LEE WEEMARCH 28, 2018
 BEIJING — China accused the deal maker who bought the Waldorf Astoria hotel in New York of bilking investors of more than $10 billion. The vast amount of money that officials said the deal maker, Wu Xiaohui, had obtained illegally raised the stakes in a prosecution meant to show Beijing’s resolve to crack down on the titanic borrowing binge of recent years. The Chinese government last month seized Mr. Wu’s company, Anbang Insurance Group, in a move seen as making an example of a firm that piled on too much debt too fast and added risks to the country’s already creaky financial system. The $10.3 billion that prosecutors allege that Mr. Wu and Anbang raised illegally would make the case one of China’s biggest financial crimes trials. Mr. Wu pleaded guilty to the charges and asked the court for a light sentence, according to an account of the proceedings posted late Wednesday on the official social media account of the court in Shanghai where he is standing trial. He is almost certain to be found guilty, as Chinese courts convict nearly everyone prosecutors accuse. Advertisement His plea was a turnabout from what the court had earlier described as a more defiant stance. Earlier on Wednesday, the court had said Mr. Wu had told the court that he did not know whether what he did constituted a crime, suggesting he would fight the charges. Mr. Wu had also denied charges that he had instructed his employees to escape abroad, to change their computers and mobile phones and to delete emails, financial data and corporate records once officials began investigating Anbang in March 2017, according to the court. Advertisement Lawyers for the tycoon could not be reached for comment. The court in Shanghai released only a partial accounting of the proceedings online, and an independent description of them was not available. In China, such proceedings are typically closed to foreign news media. Prosecutors accuse Mr. Wu, who founded Anbang, of illegally raising funds from investors by using false financial statements and promotional materials, according to the official account posted by the Shanghai No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court on Weibo, China’s version of Twitter. Prosecutors also charged Mr. Wu with embezzlement. If convicted, he could face life imprisonment. The police detained Mr. Wu in June, and he has not been seen in public since. A former car salesman who married a granddaughter of Deng Xiaoping, China’s paramount leader in the 1980s, Mr. Wu was one of the many Chinese deal makers who rode the wave of credit stimulus that followed the 2008 global financial crisis. This new generation of Chinese companies and their high-flying executives used cheap money raised from state banks or individual investors to buy up hotels, cinemas and soccer clubs both at home and abroad. Anbang had gotten its start just a few years before the crisis, selling car insurance in the city of Ningbo, but grew to become one of China’s most ambitious insurers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. To do so, it relied on selling Chinese customers short-term investment products that promised hefty payouts. The products are sold by Anbang and many other Chinese companies, but they disclose little about the underlying investment. Many customers assume the investments are backed by the government even though they are not, putting pressure on officials to make sure investors are paid with government money if the investments go south. In the case of Anbang, both the company and government officials have said that the money given to it by small investors is sound. Anbang said in a statement on its website that its business operations were stable and that it has “sufficient cash flow to fulfill its policy commitments to all Anbang customers and ensure that the legitimate rights of its policyholders are not lost.” After acquiring the Waldorf Astoria, Anbang tried a number of prominent global deals, including an unsuccessful campaign to buy Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide and a bid to buy a stake in a Manhattan office building partly owned by Jared Kushner’s family company. The deal with Mr. Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law, was eventually abandoned after it was covered by the news media. Mr. Wu’s fortunes took a turn for the worse last year when the government, wary about rising levels of debt, began to scrutinize its big deal makers. That led to public criticism of some of those companies and restrictions on capital outflow. On top of that, Anbang was never able to explain fully who its shareholders were to American regulators, who were pressing the company on its ownership structure. Advertisement China is now trying to rein in the growth of its wealth management products industry, fearful that excessive levels of debt could destabilize its economy, the world’s second-largest behind that of the United States. The scrutiny on Anbang roughly coincided with the removal of the commissioner of the China Insurance Regulatory Commission a year ago. On March 12, the Chinese government said it would merge banking and insurance regulators in an effort to close regulatory loopholes. Prosecutors in China say that Mr. Wu concealed his control of companies that he then used to hold shares of Anbang Insurance and Anbang Group. Using one of Anbang Group’s subsidiaries, Anbang Property & Casualty Insurance Company, as a funding platform, he ordered the development of investment-type insurance products. According to prosecutors, Mr. Wu led the design of the products and instructed the company to make false financial statements and marketing brochures. By doing that, he managed to get approval from the insurance regulatory agency to raise funds from the public. By Jan. 5, 2017, the company had sold $116.5 billion of products, far more than the amount the government had approved. Some of that money was then moved to the companies that Mr. Wu controlled. Those funds were used to invest, to repay debts and for personal spending, according to prosecutors. Mr. Wu said the capital increase was from his self-owned funds. Follow Sui-Lee Wee on Twitter: @suilee. Alexandra Stevenson contributed reporting from Hong Kong. Elsie Chen contributed research from Beijing and Cao Li from Hong Kong. Follow Sui-Lee Wee on Twitter: @suilee. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:18 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN FRANCISCO —  Three Facebook Messenger app users have filed a lawsuit claiming the social network violated their privacy by collecting logs of their phone calls and text messages. The suit, filed Tuesday in federal court in northern California, comes as Facebook faces scrutiny over privacy concerns. Facebook acknowledged on Sunday that it began uploading call and text logs from phones running Google's Android system in 2015. Facebook added that only users who gave appropriate permission were affected, that it didn't collect the contents of messages or calls, and that users can opt out of the data collection and have the stored logs deleted by changing their app settings. The suit seeks class-action status. A message seeking comment from Facebook on Wednesday was not immediately returned. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:20 P.M. E.D.T.
 BRUSSELS —  Europe's antitrust chief Margrethe Vestager, who has taken on Google, Apple and Qualcomm in recent years, is looking to three academics to help her deal with anti-competitive practices in fast-moving technology markets. Regulators on both sides of the Atlantic worry about the power of a few giant technology companies over businesses and users, with critics even calling for the rewriting of antitrust enforcement rules to make them more interventionist. Others, however, say enforcers have no business predicting how new technologies should develop and where and how they should be used. U.S. Federal Trade Commission acting chairman Maureen Ohlhausen in a recent speech asked if enforcers were truly qualified to pick winners and losers in the modern economy. Vestager said the three experts, appointed for a year, would summarise their views on the future challenges of digitisation in a report by the end of March 2019. Advertisement "Digitisation means markets are going through enormous changes – not just technology markets, but markets throughout the economy," Vestager said in a statement on Wednesday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "One example is how the reliance on data and artificial intelligence will further affect how companies operate and interact. Or, how customer experience is impacted by voice control. Just to name a few amongst many questions." The academics are Heike Schweitzer, the managing director of the Institute for German and European Economic Law, Competition Law and Regulatory Law; Jacques Cremer, a former scientific director at the Toulouse School of Economics; and Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye, a lecturer at Imperial College London's Data Science Institute and Department of Computing. Advertisement (Reporting by Foo Yun Chee; Editing by Mark Potter) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:44 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  British employers turned slightly more confident about hiring staff between December and February, according to a survey conducted before Britain struck a Brexit transition deal between the European Union. The Recruitment and Employment Confederation (REC) said 28 percent of companies expected to become more confident about hiring workers, compared with 19 percent who said less. The survey of 600 companies was conducted between Nov. 24 and Feb. 28. This month Brussels agreed a political, if not yet legal, deal to let Britain stay in the bloc's single market - but without a vote - for 21 months after Brexit next March. "The announcement that EU workers who arrive in the transition period can stay is a positive step, but businesses need to know what access they'll have to EU workers after that time period so they can plan ahead effectively," Tom Hadley, director of policy at REC, said. Advertisement The survey showed only 17 percent of employers planned to increase permanent staff over the next four to 12 months.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Employers are potentially turning to temps, which could bring opportunities to candidates interested in temporary work and the flexibility it affords, but is also a sign employers are affected by economic and political uncertainty," Hadley said. Official data have pointed to a healthy labour market for the time being. British workers' overall pay rose at the fastest pace in more than two years in the three months to January, bolstering the chances that the Bank of England will raise borrowing costs in May. The data also showed the number of people in work grew by 168,000, double the forecast in a Reuters poll of economists. Advertisement (Reporting by Andy Bruce; Editing by William Schomberg) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 8:03 P.M. E.D.T.
 BALTIMORE —  A ransomware attack hobbled Baltimore's 911 dispatch system over the weekend, a city official confirmed Wednesday, prompting a roughly 17-hour shutdown of automated emergency dispatching. Earlier this week, Mayor Catherine Pugh's office didn't specify the nature of the cyberattack. But on late Wednesday afternoon, her chief information officer announced that it was caused by "ransomware perpetrators." "We were able to successfully isolate the threat and ensure that no harm was done to other servers or systems across the city's network," said Johnson, who described it as a "limited breach." But the cyberattack in Baltimore prompted a worrying shutdown of automated emergency dispatching from early Sunday into Monday and required the transition of the critical 911 service to manual mode. Advertisement "Anything that would disrupt the public's access to emergency services is very critical," said Brian Fontes, CEO of the National Emergency Number Association, a Virginia-based organization focused on 911 issues. Advertisement Baltimore's difficulties came days after another ransomware cyberattack staggered the city of Atlanta's computer network.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Atlanta officials said their attack included the encryption of some city data and caused outages for numerous city applications, but it did not affect police and fire emergency response systems, water supply safety or the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. On Tuesday, Atlanta city employees were advised to turn on their computers and printers for the first time since the cyberattack hit the city's network last week. In Baltimore, Johnson said the mid-Atlantic city's network was actually made vulnerable by an "internal change to the firewall" by a technician who was troubleshooting another issue within the automated dispatch system. Johnson said that no personal data of any city resident was compromised. Experts say that ransomware exploits known software vulnerabilities, and often organizations that fall victim to such attacks haven't done a thorough job of patching systems regularly. Baltimore officials said they weren't aware of any specific ransom demand made by the hack into the dispatch system, but they called it a ransomware attack. The FBI and other authorities are investigating both the Baltimore and the Atlanta cyberattacks. ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:47 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Credit-monitoring firm Equifax Inc named former General Electric Co executive Mark Begor as chief executive officer on Wednesday, as it looks to regain investor confidence after being hit by a massive data breach. Begor's appointment comes about six months after Richard Smith quit as CEO following mounting criticism over the attack that could be the most expensive hack in corporate history. Begor, 59, was most recently a managing director with private equity firm Warburg Pincus. Before that he worked with GE for 35 years in various roles. Shares of Equifax rose 2.3 percent to close at $119.04. They have fallen 19 percent since the hack. Begor will be tasked with the challenge of repairing the tarnished image of the company and win back customers, after the breach prompted outrage from politicians and consumer advocates, government probes and the departure of top executives. Advertisement Listing his priorities, Begor said he would continue the "team's efforts to communicate transparently and restore confidence with consumers, customers, shareholders, and policymakers." Advertisement "Most critically, we will continue to invest in and strengthen our IT and data security," he added. Begor will start at Equifax on April 16. His base salary would be $1.5 million, according to a filing.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Equifax said in September that hackers had stolen personally identifiable information of U.S., UK and Canadian consumers, including names, Social Security numbers, birth dates, addresses driver's license and credit card numbers. The company projected earlier this month that costs related to the breach could surge by $275 million this year. Costs have already been weighing on the company's earnings. For the fourth quarter, it recorded expenses, net of insurance recoveries, of $26.5 million related to the breach. The company had appointed Paulino do Rego Barros Jr. as interim CEO, who will retire from Equifax in early 2019, Equifax said in a statement. (Reporting by Parikshit Mishra and Diptendu Lahiri in Bengaluru; Editing by Sweta Singh and Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:10 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK — Wall Street closed lower after a rocky session on Wednesday as gains in consumer staples and healthcare were offset by a sharp drop in Amazon shares and a continuing slide in technology stocks. All three major U.S. indexes ended the day in negative territory following Tuesday's late-session tech-driven sell-off following Monday's rally as traders moved to defensive stocks after recent weeks' heightened volatility. "People should expect what's happening given the kind of volatility we've seen as well as the fact that we're kind of in a news vacuum prior to quarterly earnings," Chuck Carlson, chief executive at Horizon Investment Services in Hammond, Indiana, said. "It's a market that's really looking for the next leadership." The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 9.29 points, or 0.04 percent, to 23,848.42, the S&P 500 lost 7.62 points, or 0.29 percent, to 2,605 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 59.58 points, or 0.85 percent, to 6,949.23. Advertisement Online retailer Amazon.com was down as much as 6.7 percent, losing more than $53 billion in market value after a report that President Donald Trump indicated he wanted to rein in the company. The stock later pared its loses to end the day down 4.4 percent. Advertisement Shares of automaker Tesla slumped 7.7 percent, extending recent losses, following a credit downgrade and news that officials are investigating a fatal crash and fire in California. Countering those losses were gains for consumer staples, real estate, telecom, and healthcare. 
            Position of the S. & P. 500 index at 1-minute intervals on Wednesday.         2,630 Previous close 2,612.62 2,620 2,610 2,600 2,590 10 a.m. Noon 2 p.m. 4 p.m. MARCH 28, 2018
 The S&P Energy index posted the biggest loss of the 11 major S&P sectors, ending 1.99 percent lower as crude prices fell after data showed a surprise build in U.S. stocks. 
            Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations.         To From 4th quarter revised Change at annual rate   +2.9% +2.5 +6 % +4 +2 0 –2 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 MARCH 28, 2018
 The markets shrugged off a report from the U.S. Commerce Department that the U.S. economy slowed less than previously reported in the fourth quarter as consumer spending grew at its fastest quarterly pace in three years. GDP expanded at a 2.9 percent annual rate in the last three months of 2017, ahead of the previously reported 2.5 percent. Strong economic data could invite a more hawkish approach by the U.S. Federal Reserve this year with respect to further interest rate hikes. "I'm not surprised by the economic data," said Carlson. "But the market right now is looking past that from a valuation standpoint."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Stocks had jumped earlier in the week as trade war fears ebbed following comments from officials in the United States and China that implied the world's two largest economies would renegotiate tariffs and trade imbalances. China is expected to announce a list of tariffs on U.S. imports in retaliation against the expected tariff proposals from the U.S. on Chinese goods. Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 1.12-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.22-to-1 ratio favored decliners. Volume on U.S. exchanges was 6.96 billion shares, compared to the 7.36 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days. Advertisement (Reporting by Stephen Culp; Editing by Nick Zieminski and Susan Thomas) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:09 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Equifax tapped longtime financial industry executive Mark Begor as its new permanent CEO, the company said Wednesday, as Equifax continues to try to recover from fallout surrounding the company's massive data breach. The 59-year-old Begor will take over from Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., who became interim CEO in September when Richard Smith stepped down from the post. Smith's departure followed those of two other high-ranking executives who left in the wake of the hack, which exploited a software flaw that Equifax didn't fix to expose Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data that provide the keys to identify theft. Begor comes to Atlanta-based Equifax from the private equity firm Warburg Pincus, but he spent 35 years at General Electric before joining that firm. Begor ran GE's retail credit card business from 2002 to 2011, which was eventually spun off into a separate company now known as Synchrony Financial. The company is one of the largest co-brand credit card issuers in the country, which is when a company pairs up with a bank to issue a credit card under its brand. He also is on the board of directors for FICO, the company behind the namesake credit score. In an interview with The Associated Press, Begor said he believed his previous experience working at GE — which deals with both businesses and consumers — would help him in the role. Equifax is still dealing with the aftereffects of the breach. A total of about 147.9 million Americans have been impacted by Equifax's data breach, which remains the largest exposure of personal information in history, and the company is under numerous state and federal investigations as well as dozens of class-action lawsuits. Advertisement "We didn't have the right defenses in place, but we are investing in the business to protect this from ever happening again," Begor said. "We are a public trust in many regards and we need to work to earn that trust back." Advertisement Begor said his was initially approached about interviewing for the job back in October and it took until March for the board to finalize their decision. His appointment at Equifax is effective on April 16, and he will also become a board member. He will be stepping down from his position at Warburg Pincus and FICO.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Begor will have an initial pay package of around $20 million, according to his employment with the company, which will consist of a base salary of $1.5 million, an annual bonus of at least $1.5 million, and a starting package of $17 million stock grants. Equifax also announced Wednesday that do Rego Barros Jr. will retire from the company early next year. He will assist Begor during the transition process. Equifax shares rose $2.44, or 2.1 percent, to $118.86 following the announcement. The stock remains well below its high last year of $146.26 that it traded at roughly a month before the scandal was announced. ___ Ken Sweet covers consumer financial issues for The Associated Press. Follow him on Twitter at @kensweet. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:33 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Some 60 companies including such leading brands as Subway, Sprint and the NFL are joining forces to help each other follow you around online. Adobe, a company better known for Photoshop and PDF files, says the new Device Co-op initiative it is organizing will help companies offer more personalized experiences and make ads less annoying by filtering out products and services you have already bought or will never buy. Under the initiative, Adobe can tell you're the same person on a home PC, a work laptop, a phone and a tablet by analyzing past sign-ins with member companies. The initiative comes amid heightened privacy sensitivities after reports that Facebook allowed a political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, to harvest data on millions of Facebook users to influence elections. Facebook also has been criticized for collecting call and text logs from phones running Google's Android system. Adobe's initiative underscores the role data plays in helping companies make money. Many of the initial uses are for better ad targeting. Advertisement The company timed Wednesday's announcement to a digital marketing conference it is hosting this week in Las Vegas. Adobe executives said they believed their initiative offers strong privacy safeguards and weren't worried about a backlash in light of the Facebook scandal. Advertisement "With this stuff coming out now around Cambridge Analytica and Facebook, the bar has to be so high in terms of privacy," Adobe executive Amit Ahuja said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Adobe says no personal data is being exchanged among participating companies, which also include Allstate, Lenovo, Intel, Barnes & Noble, Subaru and the Food Network. Adobe says the program links about 300 million consumers across nearly 2 billion devices in the U.S. and Canada. The program would let Sprint, for instance, know that Bob is already a customer when he visits from a new device. Bob wouldn't get a promotion to switch from another carrier, but might get instead a phone upgrade offer. Or if Mary has declared herself a Giants fan on the NFL's app, she might see ads with Giants banners when visiting NFL.com from a laptop for the first time. All this might feel creepy, but such cross-device tracking is already commonly done by matching attributes such as devices that from the same internet location, or IP address. Consumers typically have little control over it. Adobe says it will give consumers a chance to opt out of such tracking. And it's breaking industry practices in a few ways. Adobe says it will honor opt-out requests for all participating companies and for all devices at once. It's more typical for such setups to require people do so one by one. All companies in the initiative are listed on Adobe's website, a break from some companies' practice of referring only to unspecified partners. "We're doing everything we can not letting brands hide themselves," Ahuja said. But in taking an opt-out approach, which is common in the industry, Adobe assumes that users consent. And it places the burden on consumers to learn about this initiative and to figure out how they can opt out of it. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:38 A.M. E.D.T.
 BERLIN —  More babies were born in Germany in 2016 than in any year since 1996, thanks to a booming economy, government incentives and a surge in migration, data showed on Wednesday. Europe's biggest economy and its public pension system are struggling with a rapid aging of the population. In an effort to boost the birth rate, the government has expanded maternity and paternity benefits as well as childcare in the last decade. Chancellor Angela Merkel's decision in 2015 to welcome more than a million refugees, mainly from war zones in Syria and Iraq, has also been described as a demographic game changer. The Federal Statistics Office said 792,131 babies were born in Germany in 2016, up 7 percent on the year before, and the highest number since 1996. Advertisement Women between 30 and 37, who had fewer children when they were younger, are now catching up due to favorable economic conditions and family incentives, it said. Advertisement Germany is enjoying an unusually prolonged growth cycle, now in its ninth year, as record employment and ultra-low borrowing costs propel a consumer-led upswing. But while births to German citizens were up 3 percent to around 607,500 babies, the rise was far outstripped by births to citizens of other countries, up a huge 25 percent at 184,660. "The number of women from countries with a traditionally high birth rate has risen," the office said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A breakdown of the data showed the number of Syrian babies nearly quadrupled to 18,500, those with Iraqi mothers doubled to 5,500 and those with Afghan mothers tripled to 5,900. The overall fertility rate - the average number of children a woman has in her lifetime - rose to 1.59 from 1.50 in the previous year, the highest level since 1973. But although the rate among German women edged up slightly to 1.46 children, that among foreign women was more than 50 percent higher at 2.28. Despite the rise in births and immigration, experts still estimate that Germany's working-age population, whose pension contributions support the growing number of retirees, is likely to shrink in the next decade. The average fertility rate in the European Union is 1.60, according to the EU statistics office, Eurostat. France has the highest, with 1.92, and Spain and Italy the lowest, with 1.34. (Reporting by Michael Nienaber; Editing by Kevin Liffey) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:44 A.M. E.D.T.
 SEOUL —  The United States and South Korea have agreed to revise a trade pact with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation by Seoul and with concessions for U.S. autos and pharmaceutical companies, Trump administration officials said on Tuesday. In addition to increased access for American vehicles that meet U.S. but not necessarily South Korean safety standards, U.S. officials said they won reductions in non-tariff barriers to U.S. vehicle sales in the world's 11th largest vehicle market, including elimination of duplicate environmental testing requirements and recognition of U.S. replacement parts standards. In South Korea, vehicles made in the United States are a niche market, and most foreign models sold in 2017 were German and Japanese, according to South Korean vehicle registration data provided to Reuters. In 2017, Koreans registered just over 42,000 U.S. made vehicles, many of them sport utility vehicles. Of those, nearly two thirds were vehicles made by German or Japanese automakers in their U.S. factories. Advertisement The Ford Explorer was the most popular U.S. made vehicle in South Korea last year, with about 6,000 vehicles registered, according to statistics compiled by the Korea Automobile Importers and Distributors Association. Advertisement South Korean consumers registered 4,843 U.S.-made models sold by the Jeep brand of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV last year, while General Motors Co's Cadillac brand registered 2,008 U.S.-made models sold last year, according to the KAIDA figures.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The data does not include the 4,739 Chevrolet vehicles imported and sold by local manufacturer GM Korea last year. Overall, however, South Korean consumers preferred American-made vehicles offered by German and Japanese brands. German luxury vehicle brands BMW AG and Mercedes-Benz registered 12,947 U.S.-made vehicles in South Korea in 2017. South Korea last year became the sixth biggest market for Mercedes. Among Japanese automakers, Honda had the most success selling its U.S.-made vehicles to South Korean consumers, with 7,900 U.S.-manufactured Hondas registered last year. Under revisions in the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement, U.S. automakers will be able to bring into South Korea 50,000 vehicles per automaker per year that meet U.S. safety standards, not necessarily Korean standards, up from 25,000 vehicles previously. (For graphic on South Korean car imports, click: https://bit.ly/2E0mNDO) (Editing By Joseph White in Detroit, Robert Birsel) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:47 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - The S&P 500 and the Dow rose on Tuesday, led by gains in industrial and consumer staple shares, while weakness in technology stocks dragged down the Nasdaq. Stocks have been volatile in the session after the main U.S. indexes notched their best day in 2-1/2 years on Monday on waning concerns of a trade war between the United States and China. "Right now, the biggest driver in the market seems to be around the trade news and it is looking more like some of these tariff discussions are negotiations rather than strong protectionist measures," said Lisa Erickson, head of traditional investments at U.S. Bank Wealth Management in Minneapolis. "But there's going to be continued volatility in the short term and a lot of it will depend on how the fundamental news flow comes out." Advertisement U.S. stocks suffered their worst declines of the year last week after President Donald Trump moved to impose tariffs on Chinese imports of up to $60 billion. Advertisement But the sentiment has improved after reports that the countries were willing to renegotiate tariffs and trade imbalances. At 13:00 p.m. ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.67 percent at 24,365.61 and the S&P 500 rose 0.29 percent to 2,666.16. The Nasdaq Composite fell 0.33 percent at 7,196.70. Facebook dropped 2.3 percent as it continued to be weighed down by data privacy issues. The company faces an investigation by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to explain how it allowed data of 50 million users get into the hands of a political consultancy.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Tech and FANG are still trying to figure out what the way forward is, and the market is dealing with the aftermath of a massive rally. It's hard to maintain that kind of momentum," said Michael Antonelli, managing director, institutional sales trading at Robert W. Baird in Milwaukee. Another weak spot in the tech space was Nvidia, which fell 2.8 percent after the company temporarily suspended self-driving tests across the globe. Tesla shares dropped nearly 4 percent after the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board opened a field investigation of a fatal Tesla crash and major vehicle fire near Mountain View, California, last week. Twitter fell more than 7 percent after short-seller Citron Research said it was short on the stock, adding that the company was "most vulnerable" to privacy regulations. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners on the NYSE for a 1.38-to-1 ratio and for a 1.20-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq. (Reporting by Sruthi Shankar and Sweta Singh in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:08 P.M. E.D.T.
 DUBLIN —  Irish consumer sentiment rebounded in March, suggesting that better employment prospects are encouraging consumers to increase their spending even if they remain cautious about the general economic outlook, a survey showed on Thursday. The improvement reverses a decline in February and continues a see-saw pattern of monthly changes, although a modestly positive trend is still intact. The KBC Bank Ireland/ESRI consumer sentiment index increased to 108.1 in March from 105.2 in February. In January, the index hit 110.4, which was the highest level since February 2001. "The pick-up in sentiment in March represents a continuation of a trend improvement in confidence as Irish consumers put more distance between themselves and the recent financial crisis," KBC chief economist Austin Hughes said. Advertisement "This may be no more than a temporary blip but it could be hinting at the appearance of a 'feel-good' factor that could signal a step-up in consumer spending and a more rounded Irish economic recovery through 2018." Hughes said the financial crisis is still a significant constraint on confidence but the recent data suggests its impact might be diminishing. Advertisement "Irish consumers are increasingly looking forward rather than back," he added. (Reporting by Graham Fahy, editing by Padraic Halpin) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:32 A.M. E.D.T.
 SEOUL —  The United States and South Korea have agreed to revise a trade pact with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation by Seoul and with concessions for U.S. autos and pharmaceutical companies, Trump administration officials said on Tuesday. In addition to increased access for American vehicles that meet U.S. but not necessarily South Korean safety standards, U.S. officials said they won reductions in non-tariff barriers to U.S. vehicle sales in the world's 11th largest vehicle market, including elimination of duplicate environmental testing requirements and recognition of U.S. replacement parts standards. In South Korea, vehicles made in the United States are a niche market, and most foreign models sold in 2017 were German and Japanese, according to South Korean vehicle registration data provided to Reuters. In 2017, Koreans registered just over 42,000 U.S. made vehicles, many of them sport utility vehicles. Of those, nearly two thirds were vehicles made by German or Japanese automakers in their U.S. factories. Advertisement The Ford Explorer was the most popular U.S. made vehicle in South Korea last year, with about 6,000 vehicles registered, according to statistics compiled by the Korea Automobile Importers and Distributors Association. Advertisement South Korean consumers registered 4,843 U.S.-made models sold by the Jeep brand of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV last year, while General Motors Co's Cadillac brand registered 2,008 U.S.-made models sold last year, according to the KAIDA figures. The data does not include the 4,739 Chevrolet vehicles imported and sold by local manufacturer GM Korea last year.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Overall, however, South Korean consumers preferred American-made vehicles offered by German and Japanese brands. German luxury vehicle brands BMW AG and Mercedes-Benz registered 12,947 U.S.-made vehicles in South Korea in 2017. South Korea last year became the sixth biggest market for Mercedes. For a graphic on South Korean car imports, click http://graphics.thomsonreuters.com/testfiles/korea/index.html Among Japanese automakers, Honda had the most success selling its U.S.-made vehicles to South Korean consumers, with 7,900 U.S.-manufactured Hondas registered last year. Under revisions in the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement, U.S. automakers will be able to bring into South Korea 50,000 vehicles per automaker per year that meet U.S. safety standards, not necessarily Korean standards, up from 25,000 vehicles previously. (Editing By Joseph White in Detroit, Robert Birsel) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:26 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Is London's position as the largest international center of finance slipping as a result of Brexit? London has been a critical artery for the flow of money around the world for centuries. The financial services sector accounts for about 12 percent of Britain’s economic output, employs about 1.1 million people and pays more taxes than any other industry. From its traditional City heartland to the brash Canary Wharf skyscrapers and plush Mayfair townhouses, London represents one of the greatest concentrations of financial wealth on earth. Its only rival, New York, is centered on American markets, while London has more banks than any other hub, dominates markets such as global foreign exchange and commercial insurance and is home to international bond trading and fund management. Advertisement But about a third of the transactions on its exchanges and in its trading rooms involve clients in the European Union. These may be jeopardized after Brexit unless Britain manages to maintain similar levels of access to the trading bloc. Advertisement The French finance minister predicts Paris will overtake London as Europe's most important financial center in a few years, although supporters of leaving the EU say Britain will benefit over the long term by setting its own rules. London remained top of the rankings in the annual Global Financial Centres Index released this week by Z/Yen Partners and the China Development Institute, although the gap between it and New York in second closed to one point on a scale of 1,000 and its rating rose by less than the other four top centers. Reuters is publishing its second Brexit tracker, monitoring six indicators to help assess the City's fortunes, taking a regular check on its pulse through public transport usage, bar and restaurant openings, commercial property prices and jobs. Almost a year before Britain is due to leave the EU, the tracker suggests London's financial districts have been held back, but there is no evidence of a mass exodus. "London has not come close to taking a mortal blow or anything like it ... The increasing uncertainty though over London’s future has led to a stall in its growth," Michael Mainelli, Executive Chairman of Z/Yen, told Reuters. (Graphic: Brexit and the City - https://tmsnrt.rs/2zzQOfC) Jobs leaving London? Firms employing the bulk of UK-based workers in international finance told Reuters that the number of finance jobs they plan to shift out of Britain or create overseas by March 2019 due to Brexit has dropped to 5,000, half the figure six months ago. This comes amid more conciliatory signals from British Prime Minister Theresa May, while progress in talks with the EU have prompted some companies to delay large staff moves. Advertisement The findings suggest that the first wave of job losses may be at the lower end of initial industry estimates, meaning London will keep its place as the continent's top finance center in the short term. London's finance industry should emerge largely unscathed from Brexit even if thousands of jobs move, the City of London's political leader Catherine McGuinness says, adding that it could take years to feel the full impact of Brexit. "All the signs are that companies are just making plans to move the minimum necessary," she told Reuters, adding "just because you can't see a massive change suddenly happening you can't assume everything is okay." Hiring numbers The number of available jobs in London's financial services industry fell the most in six years in 2017, said recruitment agency Morgan McKinley which hires staff in finance. It bases its number on the overall volume of mandates it receives to find jobs and applies a multiplier based on its market share of London's finance industry. The recruiter found 82,147 new financial services jobs were created last year, a 12.45 percent drop on a year earlier. This is the lowest number of jobs available since 2011. "Brexit has stalled the growth of jobs. Companies are reluctant to make major investment decisions at the moment," said Hakan Enver, operations director at Morgan McKinley Financial Services, which carried out the survey. Commercial property Reuters obtained property data from Savills and Knight Frank, two of the biggest real estate firms in Britain. Savills calculates the value from all-known property deals within the City of London area.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Savills says commercial property prices in the City of London are now at the highest level since the third quarter of 2016, three months after the Brexit vote, driven by a surge in office purchasing and leasing in the final quarter of 2017. Advertisement The price of renting real estate in the City of London district rose 9.5 percent in the last three months of the year, climbing to 78 pounds ($107) per square foot, from 71.21 pounds in the third quarter of 2017, Savills says. "There has been a lot of exaggeration about the demise of the City," Philip Pearce, a director at Savills, said. "The expectation post-Brexit was the world would start draining away from the City, whereas the reverse has happened." In Canary Wharf, prices were also unchanged in 2017 compared with the year before, Knight Frank, whose data comes from landlords, developers and agents, says. Going Underground Some 400,000 journeys are recorded every day at the three main underground stations that serve the City and Canary Wharf. Reuters filed Freedom of Information Act requests to Transport for London, to get this data which shows that the number of people using Bank and Monument stations is on course for its first fall since the final year of the financial crisis. Travelers going in and out of Bank and Monument fell by a fifth in 2017 compared with 2016, the data shows. This follows an annual increase each year since 2009. In Canary Wharf, the number of people using the station fell by 10 percent, while the number of people using London's underground network fell about 2 percent overall last year. Mike Brown, the commissioner for Transport for London, said it is struggling to explain the drop in passenger numbers. Advertisement "Is it an element of economic uncertainty? Is it a handful of jobs here or there maybe not being there this year, compared to last year, or is it actually just that people are working from home?" he said. "It is a bit difficult to be categoric." Canary Wharf's owners did not respond to requests for comment. City Airport The number of passengers using London City Airport, a popular gateway for finance executives, fell for the first time since the final year of the 2007-2009 global financial crisis in 2017, its publicly available figures show. The number of passengers at the airport, close to Canary Wharf's financial district, fell 0.2 percent last year. That compares with an average annual 8.8 percent increase in the previous six years. London City Airport said the stagnating numbers were partly caused by some airlines cutting routes. "We are very confident about the long term future prospect of London City Airport and aviation in the UK, with passenger growth expected to resume in 2018," a spokesman said. Bar and restaurant openings Reuters filed a Freedom of Information Act request to the City of London Corporation to find the number of new premises which have applied for licenses to sell alcohol and license renewals. The number of venues, such as bars and restaurants, with licenses to sell alcohol in the City of London in 2017 fell 1.6 percent, data from the municipal local authority shows. The number of venues applying for new licenses was flat compared with 2016, the data shows, although the City of London Corporation said such fluctuations were normal. "As some establishments close and others open, it is inevitable that licensing renewal figures will fall and rise but overall, the number of licensed premises in the City has steadily increased in recent years," it said in a statement. ($1 = 0.7278 pounds) (Reporting by Andrew MacAskill; Editing by Alexander Smith) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By PENELOPE GREENMARCH 28, 2018
 In the fall of 2015, Nina Lorez Collins, a former literary agent, writer and mother of four young adults, including a pair of twins, was experiencing a fairly typical middle-aged malaise. She had a complicated second marriage, and her body was betraying her — textbook perimenopausal stuff, awaking most nights at 3 a.m., heart pounding, soaked in sweat. When she Googled “perimenopause,” it amused her to read that one of the symptoms was “impending sense of doom,” and she noted her discovery in an uncomplicated (until recently) manner: a Facebook post. Friends wrote back, half-seriously, suggesting she start a group for their cohort, but what to call it? Black Cohosh (for the herbal remedy)? How about What Would Virginia Woolf Do? one friend joked darkly, because of course what Woolf did, at 59, was kill herself. Within a week or so, Ms. Collins, now 48, had created a secret Facebook group with just that title, inviting her friends into the internet era’s version of a consciousness-raising group, where women of a certain age could talk about things they didn’t want to share with husbands, partners or children. That would be everything from the peevishly quotidian (complaints about dry skin or men not shutting cabinets) to the truly harrowing (suicide ideation; job loss at middle age; bad marriages; domestic abuse; and children suffering from drug addiction). Advertisement And sex. There would be lots of chatter around sex: requests for tips on technique; concern about “the handful of limp” of an older boyfriend; vaginal atrophy; dry vaginas; sex toys; bad sex; no sex; anal sex; the viability of hiring a male prostitute; who has an orgasm first during sex: weird places to have sex; obligatory sex; sex with an ex; tantric sex; group sex; and many, many posts about coconut oil (see “dry vaginas,” above). Advertisement Ms. Collins, who lives in Brooklyn Heights in a modish duplex apartment overlooking the East River, is emblematic of a certain demographic: mostly white — though Ms. Collins is half-black — expensively educated and housed liberals. You would assume that group would mirror itself online and stay small and homogeneous. But within a year of its founding, WWVWD, to use its colloquial abbreviation, had more than 1,300 members; the week after the presidential election there was an increase of another 1,000, Ms. Collins said, with many seeking a way to marshal themselves for political action. The original group, which Ms. Collins changed from “secret” to “closed” (meaning it can be seen by the public), begot subgroups, for those who wanted to focus on philanthropy, activism, business networking and writing. Woolfers in New York City began meeting in person, as Ms. Collins led field trips to Toys in Babeland, the sex accessories emporium on the Lower East Side, and hosted Scrabble tournaments and clothing swaps. Woolfers have also swapped houses and apartments, rented each other rooms and raised money for groups including the Center for Reproductive Rights and the Trust for Public Land. Recently, four Woolfers spent a day at the Wallkill Correctional Facility, joining a mentorship program for inmates there. There are now more than 7,600 Woolfers across the country, from New York City, Boston, San Francisco and Los Angeles, as you might expect, but also from Arkansas, Chicago and Maine. And Ms. Collins, who spent a few weeks last month on a cross-country road trip with a new boyfriend meeting Woolfers in Memphis and Telluride, Colo., among other spots, has a new book, out in April, called “What Would Virginia Woolf Do? And Other Questions I Ask Myself as I Attempt to Age Without Apology.” It is a sometimes wince-inducing primer on fashion, sex, marriage, divorce, money and health gleaned from her experience as Woolfer in chief, and with contributions from her Woolfer sisters. It also has memoirish elements: Ms. Collins details her adventures in the orgy tent at Burning Man (she and her ex brought their own sheets, and kept to themselves), her struggles with depression and her adherence to an expensive beauty routine that involves fake eyelashes and Botox. She also cops to divorce envy, and notes the benefits of prenups, long-term-care insurance and pharmaceuticals like Xanax. In its breezy candor, the book is as appealing and appalling as the conversations of the Woolfers online, though it lacks the tartness and invective that occasionally erupts there, turning a you-go-girl group of self-affirmers into an unruly scrum. Because when thousands of women get together on social media, what could possibly go wrong? “We do fight sometimes,” Ms. Collins said. “We’re talking about super-candid things, and people have strong opinions. If you’re talking about whether or not to let your 16-year-old have sex or whether to have an affair or how to tell your colleague at work that she’s a jerk, people will have strong responses.” When one long-married woman wrote about the heartache she was feeling because her lover of five years had broken up with her, many Woolfers were upset by her adultery, Ms. Collins said, and she had to step in to remove comments that were aggressive, moralistic and vitriolic. When a white Woolfer reported that a black man in a park had exposed himself to her, many in the group were inflamed that she had noted his race. Advertisement At first, Ms. Collins read every post herself, to steer the conversation and defuse tension. But when the group swelled to 3,000, she asked some of the early Woolfers to help her moderate; now, about 20 women have oversight of what’s posted. Politics, race and infidelity are topics that reliably lead to problems. “I’ll be out somewhere and I’ll get a text from someone saying basically there’s a huge fight in Aisle 6 and what do we do?” Ms. Collins said. Early last year, Ms. Collins chastised the group for what she saw as occasional reflexive pettiness. “This is not a liberal arts college, circa 2016,” she wrote in part. “We don’t have to give trigger warnings. Bring on the posts about money concerns and racism concerns and class struggle, but don’t blame fellow members without real cause. Assume goodness, please.” Jenny Douglas, an early Woolfer and moderator, said, “If there’s a post you don’t like, we say, ‘Scroll on by.’ You don’t need to pick a fight with everything or anyone you disagree with. When we are meeting online and tackling subjects that are so nuanced, you can lose that nuance. Those tender subjects are tricky to tackle in any form.” Just a few weeks ago, a moderator quit the group after a discussion of moderator practices — how they vetted posts, for example — left her feeling bullied, she said. There are over-posters, and drunk posters; there are angry, cursing posters — whose words are promptly removed, Ms. Collins said — and posters who are a tad self-righteous. And there are the lurkers and the hate readers, along with those who are repelled or bored or disappointed by the particular window into women’s lives that the group affords them. “I always think that Virginia Woolf would be mortified at having her name associated with this group,” said Daphne Merkin, the memoirist and cultural critic, who is a member of the group but does not post anything. “At first I thought it was going to be some kind of literary meeting of the minds. That there would be some interesting comments about Jean Rhys. Instead it’s, “What do you do with your dildos?” Or this sort of subclinical despair about no longer having a flat stomach. “It’s not like that stuff is beneath me,” Ms. Merkin went on. “I mean, I once wrote a story on buffing up the vagina, but these revelations are very cosmeticized. There’s little wit, but maybe wit takes more time than social media allows. This is more like the stuff you tell your girlfriend at the end of the day, the eye-glazing end of intimacy. There’s intimacy that’s thrilling, but this isn’t.” Conversations have leaked outside the group, like the time one woman wrote of her son’s bad behavior, and another Woolfer told her own child, who happened to know the son, who then told the son of his mother’s revelations about his conduct. Advertisement “It was pretty easy to figure out who it was,” Ms. Collins said of the offending member. “I reached out and said, ‘This is super-uncool,’ and we removed her from the group. The way we dealt with it was to write about it, so everyone knew what had happened. Ironically, and because I’m a bigger personality, I’ve probably suffered more than others for this.” The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ms. Collins is indeed not only confessional, but also confrontational. In 2013, in an article for Elle magazine, she wrote about being arrested three times: for assaulting her first husband, for assaulting his girlfriend and for violating an order of protection he had taken out against her, by overturning a coffee table. A recent Page Six item reported that her second husband had broken her nose during a fight last September. “What does it mean to be ‘too much,’ as a woman?” she said. “We talk about this a lot in the group.” Ms. Collins is happy to share her labial regimen (see “coconut oil,” above), the minutiae of her sex life and the unraveling of her second marriage, which ended in part because of the meddling of a Woolfer, as it happens. “The marriage was strained, and I had been wanting a second dog for a while,” Ms. Collins said. “My husband didn’t, but like most women I do most of the work around the house and pay my fair share.” She asked the Woolfers, in essence, “Am I a jerk if I just go ahead and get the dog?” “I thought it would be a throwaway thread,” she said. “But suddenly there were like 600 comments,” evenly divided in opinion. (She didn’t get the dog.) It turns out that one Woolfer who read the thread was an old friend of Ms. Collins’s husband, and the woman told him about his wife’s query. “He came home pretty angry, and the marriage ended pretty much the next day,” Ms. Collins said. A revenue model for the Woolfers has yet to emerge, though Ms. Collins is working on it. She has built a website to promote her book, created a newsletter and recorded five sample podcasts — called “Raging Gracefully” — which she plans to release in April. As Ms. Collins has told the group, she received a $75,000 book advance, which she split with an editor and researcher who worked with her. She is as candid about her entrepreneurial behaviors and aspirations as she is about more intimate matters. “Can we create a digital platform for women over 40?” Ms. Collins said. Fortunes have been lost on the print version of such endeavors, despite economic data that shows the purchasing power of this demographic, decade after decade. And Ms. Collins is not alone in trying to reach them online. Girls of a Certain Age, a six-year-old style site created by Kim France, the founding editor of Lucky magazine, gets about 30,000 unique hits a month and makes over six figures, Ms. France said. Advertisement Lesley Jane Seymour, the editor in chief of More magazine, which folded in 2016 after publishing for 19 years and was reintroduced as an online magazine for millennial women, has spent the last two years working on Covey Club, “an online club for women 40+ who want to continue learning, growing and expanding their world by making new friends and deeper connections,” which went live this past Valentine’s Day. Ms. Seymour was promoting the site at the South by Southwest festival a few weeks ago, joining the stage with Tausha Robertson, creator of Ms. X. Factor, a digital space for Gen X women of color. “I know there’s a business here,” Ms. Seymour said. “The question is how to do it. We can’t just sell content online, it has to be something else. What is clear is that women who are a little bit older feel disenfranchised. They feel no one is listening to them, and they feel invisible.” Ms. Collins said of her group, “I see it as incredible content potential and, though this sounds a little grandiose, possibly culture shifting. These women are powerful, and they have made me feel more powerful.” There’s a continuing conversation about whether the group is getting too big and how or if to control for privacy. When the news of Facebook’s breaches broke last week, the moderators again discussed restricting new members or moving to a different platform. “Maybe one day we’ll have an app or some other platform for more intimacy,” Ms. Collins said. “But for now, here we are, basically addicted and not budging.” Dina Seiden is a Brooklyn-based writer and performance artist, a committed Woolfer and, now, a moderator. The group’s foibles, she said, are part of the draw. “They make aging so much fun. We’re not all saints — no, we’re perfectly human, and that is ultimately good for the group, too.” Last Christmas she participated in a Secret Santa gift exchange. In a “cheeky nod,” she said, to a topic the group seems to hold dear, Ms. Seiden sent her recipient a vintage vibrator: a formidable, Machine Age relic called the Vitilator she’d bought on eBay for $15, the price cap the group had set. “I mean, kismet!” Ms. Seiden said, truly delighted by her find. Unfortunately, the recipient was a germophobe, and was horrified to have received such an intimate, secondhand device, as she explained. Did Ms. Seiden want it back? If so, she’d leave it with her doorman. “But it was a schlep and I just wanted to put the incident behind me, so I never did pick it up,” Ms. Seiden said. “My dream is that the doorman gave it to a woman in his life, or that a slightly awkward exchange ensued in which the doorman had to return the vibrator to its recipient, passing it clumsily to her and in my dream, by the time she gets up to her apartment, she can’t resist, transcends her putative germophobia, and gets herself off like a rock star.” A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: In a Chat Room of Their Own, Some Scuffling.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
The National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis is a monument to a movement, and to its leader. It offers crucial insights for 2018, and for the future. By HOLLAND COTTERMARCH 28, 2018
 MEMPHIS — March for Our Lives, the student-driven protest against gun violence. The Millions March against police violence. The Sacramento protest over the fatal shooting of Stephon Clark. Had he survived, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. would have been there, walking, talking, listening, present, as he was for countless body-on-the-line campaigns for social justice in the 1950s and ’60s. He was organizing a march in the final days of his life. On April 3, 1968, he came to Memphis on what was a fast return trip. A peaceful demonstration five days earlier in support of black city sanitation workers had ended in a panicked rout when militant protesters stirred up the crowd, and the police came down hard. Now he was back. That night, at a local church, he delivered his apocalyptic “Mountaintop” speech. People cheered. His mood brightened. He spent much of the next day, April 4, at the black-owned Lorraine Motel, waiting for the city to approve a permit for the second march. When it finally came through, he relaxed. Everything would be O.K. Around 6:00, he strolled onto the balcony outside his second-floor room and bantered with friends in the parking lot below. There was the crack of a gunshot. He staggered and dropped. Dr. King’s death shook the nation, inspired outpourings of grief, rage, and in some quarters, relief. Two months later, Robert F. Kennedy was killed and mourning shifted, the news cycle moved on. In the years that followed, the Lorraine Motel slowly fell into disrepair until, in 1991, it was rescued and reopened as the National Civil Rights Museum. An expansion in 2014 brought in new visitors. And the 50th anniversary of the King assassination, coming now as it does in a politically sundered, racially fraught year, should bring in more, with a special exhibition, starting April 4, comparing contemporary events like the Occupy movement and the Living Wage Campaign with King’s Poor People’s Campaign and sanitation strike. Advertisement What they’ll find in its permanent collection is a monument to a movement and, secondarily, to a man, in a display that focuses on difficult, sometimes ambiguous historical data more than on pure celebration. And they’ll find, if they are patient, useful information for the 2018 present, and for the future. The shape of the story told by the museum is chronological, a narrative of African-American life that starts with colonial slavery, moves through the long Jim Crow era, and then lingers over the civil rights events of the 1950s and ’60s: the bus boycotts, the Freedom Rides; the Washington march; the Birmingham children’s crusade, the Selma-to-Montgomery walk for the vote; the Memphis strike. Advertisement It’s a story of high contrasts: good versus bad, right versus wrong. And the museum presents it that way. In windowless, black-box galleries, objects are picked out in pin spots; words and images glow on digital screens. They are the visual equivalents of references to light that glint in Dr. King’s speeches, to “luminous brotherhood,” “the sunlight of opportunity,” “the radiant promises of progress.” He called the Memphis strike another step on the journey from “the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice.” Such imagery has always been part of popular accounts of the movement. In another Southern museum, the Mississippi Civil Rights Museum, which opened in Jackson, Miss., late last year, the galleries are, as in Memphis, somber and shadowy, but they open onto a central hall furnished with benches and holding a big sculpture made of swirling, pulsating light. The message: history is grim, but it’s also redemptive. You can break for uplift any time. The Memphis museum uses light to dramatic effect, but in a very different way. After you’ve walked though sequential decades of history, you arrive at 1968, instantly recognizable from a mural-size image by the Memphis photographer Ernest C. Withers of sanitation workers carrying protest placards reading “I AM A MAN.” You pass through a narrow passageway and suddenly the artificial twilight you’ve become used to becomes daylight. You are inside the Lorraine Motel, on the second floor, outside Room 306, Dr. King’s room, visible through a cutaway wall: turned-down beds; open suitcases; coffee cups, sunlight seeping through curtains — preserved mostly as it was when he died. And just outside the room is the balcony door. You look through its window and see where Dr. King fell and, some distance away, the back of a building, the former rooming house — now part of the museum — from which his killer took aim. (James Earl Ray died while serving a 99-year sentence.) Unlike the museum’s other displays, this one is minimally theatrical: real-world light falling on plain, real-world things. Also, it’s a dead end. Your pilgrim’s progress into history is, abruptly, over. If the civil rights movement extended beyond April 4, 1968, you don’t learn that here. Your choices are either to return the way you came or head for a closer exit. The story the museum tells stirs emotions but leaves them unresolved. In many ways the experience, whether intended or not, is in sync with the political atmosphere of the country today. Uplift feels anachronistic; progress is cut off; the future left unimagined. Dr. King may have shared similar feelings. In our journey through the museum, he has been our Virgil, our calm, sage guide through the hell and heaven of postwar racial history. In Room 306, he becomes our frustrated, anxious contemporary. When he checked into the Lorraine on April 3, he was in a dark mood, not just from the first, failed march, but from a political environment that had turned unpredictable. His speech that night was a sonorous movement pep talk. But there was regret in it. It was mortality-tinged: “Like anybody, I would like to live a long life. Longevity has its place. But I’m not concerned about that now. I just want to do God’s will. And He’s allowed me to go up to the mountain. And I’ve looked over. And I’ve seen the promised land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight, that we, as a people will get to the promised land.” I wonder if, at that point, he really believed we would get to this “promised land” of racial harmony anytime soon. By that point, integration was, technically, reality, with Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kan., and the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964. But so was the anger, both black and white, that the fight for equality had generated. By the mid-1960s, Dr. King was sensing that the nonviolent resistance he had built his reputation on was inadequate. He continued to preach an ideal of reform-through-love, but he was starting to think about “a radical revolution of values.” Advertisement He was thinking global. It had become clear to him that racism was not a stand-alone evil. It was an organic element in a disease complex that included capitalism, colonialism and militarism. In 1965, in a break with his assigned public role fighting racism Dr. King spoke out against the war in Vietnam. It confused supporters and earned him vindictive enemies. By the time he checked into Room 306, he was, for good reason, feeling vulnerable and fatalistic. He had been to the mountaintop; but he had hit some valleys too. My guess is that if Martin Luther King Jr. of 1968 were to return to 2018 America, he would be unsurprised by some of what he’d find: the staggering numbers of black men in jail; the recurrent killings of unarmed black youths by police; the emboldened presence of white supremacism. As a leader, he shaped a great humanitarian movement; as a thinker, he came to understand humanism’s deep flaws. I wonder what he would think about how we engage with the history he helped create. A glance at contemporary art might give him some clues. In 1988, the African-American artist Glenn Ligon took as a subject a foundational civil rights emblem, the “I AM A MAN” strike placard, and did several things to it simultaneously: He replicated it, customized it, and critiqued it. He turned it into a painting. In doing so, he paid homage to the mass-printed original; he gave its adamant words a new, queer dimension (Mr. Ligon is gay); and he turned an activist artifact, one that functioned as demand for economic equity, into an elite museum object, its text now done in glossy, light-catching enamel. (The painting is currently on view at the National Gallery of Art in Washington,  in honor of the King anniversary.) On multiple levels, Mr. Ligon made a piece of civil rights history his own, though attempts by other artists to do something similar have backfired. A recent example is the painting “Open Casket” by Dana Schutz, in the 2017 Whitney Biennial. The source of the image in this case was also a movement icon: a 1955 post mortem photograph of Emmett Till, a black teenager who, after being accused of whistling at a white woman, was murdered. At his mother’s insistence, Till’s tortured body was put on public view and photographed. The pictures, printed in Jet magazine, are credited with bringing many people into the civil rights movement, among them Dr. King. At the Whitney, the painting sparked protests by some black artists who demanded its removal. At issue was that Ms. Schutz is white. Dr. King’s initial vision for the civil rights movement was one of racial harmony; blacks and whites working together to achieve equal lives for all. Possibly in those early days, Ms. Schutz’s painting might have passed as a gesture of solidarity. But by 1968, it was clear, even to moderate blacks, that sharing power was not likely to happen. For the Whitney protesters, “Open Casket” was an emblem of the continuing exercise of white privilege that, in this case, allowed a white-controlled museum and a white artist to lay claim to a sensational image of black pain.  I suspect that the Dr. King of Room 306 would have understood the protesters’ point. In his Nobel Peace Prize acceptance speech, given in 1964, when he was 35, he said that he could not, would not, permit himself to envision a world in which humanity was “so tragically bound to the starless midnight of racism and war that the bright daybreak of peace and brotherhood can never become a reality.” But over the next four years, as Vietnam ground on, civil rights activists met violent ends, and race wars laid waste to American cities, daybreak must have seemed far-off. Advertisement To idealists of the 21st century, it may seem that on many social, economic and ethical fronts the country has come to what seems a futureless halt, just as the museum’s civil rights story does. But rather than exit the scene in weariness or frustration, we would do well to go back in time. If we stay alert, we can find instruction there. The emphasis of the present-day protest movements is on inclusion: equal salaries, equal education, the right to marry. The goal is to get a share in the system. The civil rights movement began with that goal too, then realized that the system was the problem. Dr. King eventually came to this conviction, and in some ways it made the end of his life hard, complicated and unsettled. Other people, however, held that view all along, and many of them were women. Sexism was rampant within the movement leadership. Women were expected to make coffee, make nice and stay home. Some, like Ella Baker, a tireless civil rights organizer, refused. True monuments have yet to be raised to enough of these women. One, Fannie Lou Hamer (1917-1977), was a monument herself. A Mississippi Delta field worker, she was jailed and beaten when she tried to register to vote at 46, but went on to run for Congress. Her televised testimony, to determine whether she and her all-black Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party could be seated at the Democratic National Convention, is in the National Civil Rights Museum. Hamer’s unscripted account of her jail experience, with its blunt challenge — “I question America” — is overwhelming: dark and incandescent. In May 1963, in Birmingham, Ala., Dr. King organized the most brilliant civil disobedience campaigns of his career, when he brought more than a thousand black schoolchildren into the streets to demonstrate against segregation. Hundreds were arrested; others were blasted with fire hoses. When people rebuked Dr. King for putting young people at risk, he said: “Don’t hold them back if they want to go to jail. For they are doing a job not only for themselves, but for all of America and for all mankind.” The world reacted, shamed the city and Birmingham took its first steps toward desegregation. It occurred to me while I was listening to Hamer that her equivalents today may be Black Lives Matter and #MeToo. And the Children’s Campaign lives on in March for Our Lives and #NeverAgain. Dr. King, at the end of his life, set for himself a goal that all worthy leaders might strive for: to live a life of “dangerous unselfishness.” In 2018, this could yield an imaginable future. The sermon Dr. King gave the night before he died was somber and cautionary but also gave reason for hope. “Only when it’s dark enough,” he said, “can you see the stars.” A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page AR14 of the New York edition with the headline: Where the Dream Is Always Alive.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:18 A.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration's decision to ask people about their citizenship in the 2020 census set off worries among Democrats that immigrants will dodge the survey altogether, diluting political representation for states that tend to vote Democratic and robbing many communities of federal dollars. Not since 1950 has the census collected citizenship data from the whole population, rather than just a population sample, says the Congressional Research Service. The decision to restore the question after decades prompted an immediate lawsuit from California — already tangling with Washington over immigration — and moves by other states with large immigrant populations to engage in a legal fight. The population count, a massive effort taken every 10 years, is far more than an academic exercise. It's required by the Constitution and used to determine the number of seats each state has in the House as well as how federal money is distributed to local communities. Communities and businesses depend on it in deciding where to build schools, hospitals, grocery stores and more. The political stakes of undercounting segments of the population are high. Several states that have slowing population growth or high numbers of immigrants such as California, New York, Illinois, Massachusetts and Ohio are typically at risk of losing U.S. House seats when their congressional districts are redrawn every 10 years — depending on how fully their residents are counted. Advertisement California struck quickly, with Attorney General Xavier Becerra filing a federal lawsuit Tuesday that seeks to block Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross' decision to add a citizenship question in 2020. Officials from New York and New Jersey, also Democratic-led states, were also planning on leading or participating in lawsuits. Massachusetts signaled interest, too. Advertisement "The census constitutes the backbone for planning how and where our communities will invest taxpayer dollars," Becerra said. "California simply has too much to lose to allow the Trump Administration to botch this important decennial obligation. The Justice Department said in a statement it "looks forward to defending the reinstatement of the citizenship question, which will allow the department to protect the right to vote and ensure free and fair elections for all Americans." The Commerce Department said the benefits of obtaining citizenship information "outweighed the limited potential adverse impacts." Their argument in essence: Enforcing voting rights requires more data on the voting-age population of citizens than current surveys are providing. Democratic lawmakers had been bracing for the decision. A bill sponsored by Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y. would block the addition of a citizenship question, or any major design change, unless it has undergone a certain level of research and testing, but it faces dim prospects with no Republicans signing on. House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said Tuesday that adding such a question "will inject fear and distrust into vulnerable communities and cause traditionally undercounted communities to be even further under-represented, financially excluded and left behind." Some Republican lawmakers hailed the decision on Tuesday.  GOP Sens. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Ted Cruz of Texas had sent a letter to the Commerce Department asking Ross to add the question. "It is imperative that the data gathered in the census is reliable, given the wide ranging impacts it will have on U.S. policy," Cruz said in a press release issued by the three lawmakers. "A question on citizenship is a reasonable, commonsense addition to the census."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Census Bureau separately conducts an ongoing survey called the American Community Survey that provides citizenship data on a yearly basis. But it only samples a small portion of the population. Advertisement Before that, citizenship or related questions were asked of about 1 in 6 households on the census "long form," which has since been retired. The Congressional Research Service said it has been 1950 since all households were asked about citizenship. Alabama Attorney General Steven Marshall said the American Community Survey is so small, with a correspondingly large margin of error, that it is an ineffective tool for understanding lightly populated rural areas of the country. "It just makes sense that government has a more accurate record for the census and reinstates the practice of including a citizenship question in the next census," Marshall said. A joint fundraising committee for Trump's re-election campaign and the Republican National Committee highlighted the addition of a citizenship question in a fundraising pitch last week. The pitch said Trump wants the 2020 Census to ask people whether or not they are citizens, and that in another era, this would be common sense. "The President wants to know if you're on his side," the solicitation asks. Census counts are taken by mail and by workers walking neighborhoods. The Census Bureau says the 2010 census drew a massive response, with about 74 percent of the households mailing in forms and remaining households counted by workers in neighborhoods. Information is only released publicly in the aggregate, although the government has the details. In 2010, the Obama administration offered assurances that the census data would not be used for immigration enforcement. The Census Bureau states on its website that personal information obtained through its surveys cannot be used against respondents by any government agency or court. And the disclosure by an employee of any information that would personally identify a respondent or family can lead to up to five years in prison or a fine of $250,000, or both. Critics of the decision seemed far more focused Tuesday on the potential for intimidation and an inaccurate count than the prospect that the information could be used to target participants for deportation. "I can only see one purpose for why this question is being added," said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, an organization that seeks to advance Latino political engagement. It's to "scare Latinos and others from participating in the 2020 Census." Advertisement ___ Associated Press writer Amanda Lee Myers contributed to this report from Los Angeles. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By LIZ ROBBINSMARCH 28, 2018
 Repairs on the Staten Island Expressway. Vegetables for nutritional programs in the Bronx. Programs for seniors in Manhattan and Queens. New schools in Brooklyn. The $7 billion from the federal government that funds all these aspects of New York life could be affected by one question on the 2020 census: Are you a United States citizen? That question is provoking fear among the city’s elected officials, who worry that because of its inclusion on the census questionnaire, some immigrants may decline to participate. Census information is not supposed to be shared with other parts of the government, but the Trump administration has said that all undocumented immigrants are subject to deportation, leading many to say they do not trust what the government will do with their information. Immigrants or children of immigrants make up nearly 60 percent of the city’s population, and the ripple effect could be powerful. Officials are concerned that could lead to an inaccurate population count in New York. Advertisement “People have identified this as an immigrant problem, and that’s really not accurate,” said Joseph J. Salvo, the chief demographer for the Department of City Planning. Advertisement The city’s education department comes to him for the data it uses to redraw school zones, he said, as does the health department when it needs to understand illness rates. Businesses use federal information to determine whether to open in underserved neighborhoods. There are now 3.2 million foreign-born people in New York City, out of 8.6 million residents. Of those foreign-born, 46 percent are noncitizens, Mr. Salvo said. Mr. Salvo estimates that 500,000 are undocumented. “Those immigrants are side by side with children who are citizens, with an uncle who is a legal permanent resident, with the cousin who is undocumented. All of those people are afraid,” Mr. Salvo said. The Trump administration said on Monday that the question on citizenship would be added to the census, saying it would enable the Justice Department to accurately measure the portion of the population eligible to vote. On Wednesday, the New York Immigration Coalition, an activist group, announced its New York Counts 2020 campaign alongside congressional and local elected officials. The effort has three prongs: to fight the question; to pressure the United States Census Bureau to protect the information of all New Yorkers; and to reassure residents that they can safely respond. At the news conference, Nydia Velázquez, a Democrat representing Queens, Brooklyn and Lower Manhattan, said she is co-sponsoring legislation in the House of Representatives that will require the Commerce Department to provide advance notice to Congress before changing questions on the census. Representative Grace Meng, a Democrat from Queens who sits on the committee that funds the census bureau, said she and her colleagues are considering withholding funds for 2019 unless the question is removed. In a public hearing last week before the question was added, Ms. Meng confronted the Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross, whose department oversees the U.S. Census Bureau. “I told him directly that this is about accuracy; this is mandated by the Constitution to count every living person.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said that he would join the multistate lawsuit brought by the state’s attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, against the Trump administration, to try to block the question from being included. Advertisement In the last census count, in 2010, the city’s response rate was 62 percent, but some heavily immigrant communities, like Washington Heights and the South Bronx, exceeded that, with more than 70 percent of residents answering the census questionnaires. Adriano Espaillat, a Democrat who in 2010 was representing Washington Heights and Harlem in the State Assembly, said that was in part because of a robust effort by volunteers to convince residents their participation counted. Mr. Espaillat, who is now in Congress, said he could not yet encourage undocumented residents to take part. “I want to fight this question back, first,” he said. “If not in Congress, then in the courts. If at the end of this the question remains, then we’re going to have to come together to decide the messaging.” New York Democrats in Congress worry that an undercount could cause the state to lose seats. After the 2010 census, which the city challenged because it claimed that 50,000 residents were not counted, New York forfeited two seats, in part because of a loss of population upstate. That trend could hold for 2020. Andrew Reamer, a professor at George Washington University’s Institute of Public Policy, who recently published a study on the 2020 census, said that the census reaches the most fundamental areas of life in the United States: government representation, democracy and the economy. “The census data is like the electrical system,” Professor Reamer said. “It reaches everywhere in ways that are not readily seen.” For New York, inaccurate numbers could have effects as small as a serving at lunch. “The Asian-American community is the fastest growing senior population in the city,” said Howard Shih, the director of research and policy for the Asian-American Federation in New York. Census figures, he said, could determine something as mundane, but essential, as how much food a senior center would need to order to accommodate this population. The data compiled once a decade serves as the basis of comparison for smaller, sample surveys compiled annually. “Anything that affects the propensity of people to answer the census is of concern to us,” said Mr. Salvo, the demographer. “The Census Bureau’s first priority should always be maximum response. Anything they do to compromise that, frankly, works against their main mission.” Advertisement “The Census Bureau,” he said, “creates reality.” Follow Liz Robbins on Twitter: @nytlizrobbins A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: New York Has 7 Billion Reasons  To Worry About a Census Question.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Kirsten Han SINGAPORE — Days before winning the election in 2016, Donald Trump stood on a stage and directed an accusation at a tiny country halfway across the world: Singapore, he said, was stealing American jobs. Singapore is now on the tip of Mr. Trump’s tongue again — but this time, he’s expressing admiration for its death penalty for drug trafficking. He has reportedly invited government representatives to brief the White House on their approach to drug trafficking, including their use of capital punishment. Mr. Trump seems to believe he can learn a thing or two from Singapore. This is convenient for the Singapore government, which has been using the global opioid crisis as an argument for the retention of capital punishment. While the American media reported Mr. Trump’s praise for Singapore’s “zero tolerance” stance, the country hanged a 39-year-old Ghanaian named Billy Agbozo on March 9, and a 56-year-old Singaporean, Hishamrudin bin Mohd, on March 16. Both had been convicted of drug trafficking. These are the first two executions of 2018, as far as we know; information about imminent executions is not made available, and the prison service announces the number of hangings only in its annual report. But the borrowing of ideas hasn’t been a one-way street: the government here has taken a page out of Mr. Trump’s book. The new Select Committee on Deliberate Online Falsehoods is holding public hearings to explore measures for tackling “fake news.” The committee is meant to examine a range of options, but there are strong hints that new restrictions on the media are on the way, not least because the law minister, who is also a member of the committee, has already said that legislation is a “no-brainer.” Mr. Trump constantly proclaims that his “America First” policy will prevent the United States from being taken for a ride by other countries, while Singapore denounces foreign interference in its domestic politics. Yet when the occasion suits, both are more than happy to borrow ideas from elsewhere to control their populations. Such opportunism is the hallmark of authoritarians constantly on the lookout for ways to consolidate or expand their power. Both governments claim they’re solving urgent problems: to get the opioid crisis in the United States under control, to pre-empt disinformation campaigns that might threaten Singapore’s stability. But neither proposed solution is likely to solve the problem, and might even make things worse. Researchers have pointed to a lack of reliable data on drug use in Singapore to back up the government’s claims about the death penalty’s deterrent effect. The numbers offered by the state cannot be independently verified or may not present the whole picture. For instance, Ashok Kumar Mirpuri, Singapore’s ambassador to the United States,  declared in a letter to the editor published in The Washington Post this month that Singapore had halved the number of drug abusers arrested between the 1990s and 2016 — a state of affairs supposedly brought about by the country’s willingness to impose death sentences. Yet the government’s own data shows that the number of drug abusers in Singapore increased from 2003 to 2017. The rate of drug use in any society is a complex issue with many variables; without more robust data and independent research, claims of the death penalty’s effectiveness in Singapore are unverifiable. The Singapore government has pointed to the United States, among others, as a target of disinformation campaigns, arguing that measures have to be taken to pre-empt attempts that exploit social fault lines to sow divisions within society. But Singapore already has laws that include the criminalizing of the transmission of messages known to be false, speech with the tendency to “promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different races or classes of the population,” even the uttering of words with the “deliberate intention of wounding” religious or racial feelings, on top of other regulations that give the government control over the mainstream media and the power to take down content. The government hasn’t been afraid of using these powers, either: Web publishers have been jailed for sedition and their websites ordered to be shut down, while bloggers have been sued for defamation or found to be in contempt of court. One teenage blogger, Amos Yee, was granted asylum in the United States after an American immigration panel found that his two prosecutions for wounding religious feelings in Singapore amounted to political persecution. Although government ministers claim that measures against “fake news” will not affect free speech, Singaporean activists have seen how broadly worded legislation can, and has, been used to curb dissent. As I write this, an activist is facing a charge of vandalism (among others) simply for pasting two sheets of paper on a subway car during a silent protest. Apart from vague reassurances, there is no guarantee that any new law will not be used to restrict speech and clamp down on civil society. Both Mr. Trump and the Singapore government have little time for human rights, civil liberties or even openness and accountability when there’s something they want to achieve. For Mr. Trump, the death penalty fits his favored straight-talking, tough-guy image. For Singapore, spinning “fake news” into a national security issue is a great opportunity to expand state control of the online space, where political discourse is freer than anywhere else in the country. It’s precisely this opportunism that requires civil society groups around the world to look outward even as governments look in. We need to build links so we learn from one another’s experiences. As politicians seize chances to grab power, undermine human rights and erode democratic processes, problems that exist elsewhere can very quickly become our problem too. Kirsten Han is a journalist and advocate for the abolition of capital punishment in Singapore. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:48 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  The Latest on the trade agreement reached between the U.S. and South Korea (all times local): ___ 5:30 p.m. The White House has hailed a revamped trade agreement with South Korea as a vindication of President Donald Trump's hard-nosed approach to international trade. White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says "It's a big deal and a major win for American workers and American businesses." Many trade analysts are skeptical that the changes Trump's team negotiated to the six-year-old U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) will make a dent in America's massive trade deficit or do much to increase U.S. car sales in the near-impenetrable South Korean auto market. The two countries had a big incentive to reach a deal and ease friction over trade. The two political and military allies need to present a united front ahead of Trump's meeting with reclusive North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:20 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  The sharp slump in Tesla Inc's shares this month could unlock massive gains on equity option bets investors placed over the last several months that pay when the electric car maker's stock slides. Tesla stock is down close to 27 percent this month, within striking distance of its worst month on record. Shares fell 7.7 percent to $257.78 on Wednesday, a day after tumbling 8.2 percent to their lowest close in almost a year. Tesla was hit by federal probes of a fatal crash on March 23 in California involving one of its vehicles and a downgrade of its credit position by Moody's Investors Service that cited liquidity pressures and a significant shortfall in Model 3 production. As the shares sank, put options that convey the right to sell shares at a certain price in the future have jumped in value. With Tesla shares, put options betting on declines below $50, $100 and $200, by mid-January 2019, account for the three largest blocks of open contracts. Advertisement While Tesla's shares remain far above these strike prices, recent losses have boosted the value of the put options. Advertisement Put options betting on the shares slipping below $50, changed hands on Wednesday for $1.93 a contract, up from 43 cents, a month ago. The $50, $100 and $200 puts are all trading at more than double their average trading price over the last three months, according to Thomson Reuters data. "These puts have actually become something of a running joke on my network with many different people weighing in on why someone would trade a seemingly worthless option," said Mark Longo of The Options Insider, an options commentary website. One explanation could be that firms selling credit default swaps on Tesla may be using these puts as a hedge against Tesla going bankrupt, Longo said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ophir Gottlieb, chief executive of Los Angeles-based Capital Market Laboratories, said he thinks the position is unlikely to be a hedge against a position in the stock, given how far the strike prices are from where Tesla shares are trading. "It would be like having a garden hose after a fire has already burnt the house," Gottlieb said. "The distance between the strikes is very particular. Half of $200 is $100, half of $100 is $50. That sounds like an aggressive put spreader," he said. A bear put spread involves buying one set of put contracts and selling another set with the same expiration but at a much lower strike, as a way to offset some of the cost. "If it is a speculator, they are looking for the stock to go well below $200, but not a lot below $100. They are looking for disaster, but not bankruptcy," Gottlieb said. It was not clear if the position was initiated by one trader or several, but Thomson Reuters data showed that the contracts have steadily grown in number starting around the beginning of 2017. For Tesla options in general, elevated levels of volatility and skew - a measure of relative demand for puts versus calls - suggest that options market participants see a rough road ahead for Tesla shares, said Henry Schwartz, president at options analytics firm Trade Alert in New York. Advertisement (Reporting by Saqib Iqbal Ahmed; Editing by Daniel Bases and David Gregorio) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 11:27 A.M. E.D.T.
 BERLIN —  Hungarian authorities on Wednesday arrested a German suspected of selling arms via an anti-immigrant website called "Migrants' Fright", the Berlin public prosecutor said on Wednesday. The 34-year-old man ran the website from Hungary to serve German clients from May to November 2016 before it was shut down, the prosecutor's office said. An internet search showed the website offered "first class and discretely delivered" ammunition and guns such as pistols and Kalashnikovs to clients "without troublesome bureaucratic hurdles or annoying paperwork". Hungarian authorities raided two sites in Budapest and the city of Barcs on Wednesday, seizing data and other evidence, the prosecutor's office said, adding that the man was suspected of 193 cases of illegal arms sales. Advertisement The investigation had been under way since 2016, when German magazine Focus reported that the suspect was operating "Anonymous.Kollektiv", a far-right anti-immigration website that had nearly 2 million followers on Facebook. The page has since been deleted.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. German authorities have sought to crack down on attacks against immigrants which have increased since the influx of over a million mostly Muslim migrants beginning in 2015. There were more than 2,000 attacks against migrants in 2017, ranging from physical assault to serious property damage, the German interior ministry said in February. It was not clear how many of the attacks involved weapons. Advertisement (Reporting By Riham Alkousaa; Editing by Andrea Shalal and Robin Pomeroy) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 8:29 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  British car production fell 4.4 percent in February, dragged down by the seventh consecutive monthly decline in domestic demand as sales in Europe's second biggest car market continue to slump, an industry body said on Thursday. Factories churned out 145,475 vehicles last month, according to data from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT). "Another month of double-digit decline in production for the UK is of considerable concern, but we hope that the degree of certainty provided by last week's Brexit transition agreement will help stimulate business and consumer confidence over the coming months," said SMMT Chief Executive Mike Hawes. London and Brussels agreed a deal which will see Britain retain free and unfettered trade with the European Union until at least the end of 2020 - 21 months after it formally leaves the EU - although trading arrangements after that date are subject to future talks. Advertisement The SMMT has called on Prime Minister Theresa May to secure a long-term agreement that maintains Britain's competitiveness, since several investment decisions loom in the next 12 months. Peugeot will decide whether to keep open its Vauxhall Ellesmere Port plant with new model investment, while Britain's biggest automaker Jaguar Land Rover is due to choose whether to build electric cars in its home market. Advertisement (Reporting by Costas Pitas; Editing by Mark Heinrich) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:41 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - A U.S. judge has ordered Facebook Inc to let her review documents it has refused to give the Internal Revenue Service as that agency probes whether the social media company used an Irish unit to slash billions of dollars from its tax bill. In an order on Tuesday night, U.S. Magistrate Judge Laurel Beeler in San Francisco said she may review up to 15 of the 153 disputed documents, which Facebook believes are privileged or otherwise confidential. The government may select the documents for her to review. According to the government, most of the documents concern a decision by Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg and other Facebook executives to set up an international headquarters in Dublin, Ireland, which occurred in 2010, and the transfer of assets such as worldwide user bases and online platforms there. Facebook was warned by the IRS in July 2016 that the probe could boost its U.S. tax bill by $3 billion to $5 billion, plus interest and penalties, for tax years beginning in 2010. It said last month it has set aside adequate amounts for the probe. Advertisement The Menlo Park, California-based company declined to comment on Wednesday. Beeler issued her order amid an unrelated worldwide outcry over Facebook's privacy practices, including the harvesting of user data by the London-based Cambridge Analytica research firm that worked on Donald Trump's 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. Advertisement Facebook said on Dec. 12 it would stop booking international revenue in Ireland, and instead have local affiliates book such revenue in countries where it was generated.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In making that change, which it expected to complete by the first half of 2019, Facebook cited a desire to "provide more transparency to governments and policy makers around the world." The company in 2016 routed 12.6 billion euros (US$15.5 billion) of revenue through Ireland but paid just 30 million euros (US$37 million) of taxes there, published reports said. The case is U.S. v Facebook Inc et al, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, No. 16-03777. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Tom Brown) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By CHRIS STANFORDMARCH 28, 2018
  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, made a surprise trip this week to meet with President Xi Jinping of China, Mr. Kim’s first trip abroad since taking power in 2011. Mr. Kim is preparing for summit meetings with U.S. and South Korean leaders, and the visit suggests that he values or needs China’s approval — and possibly advice — before the talks. New satellite images suggest that North Korea is expanding its nuclear production capabilities, which could complicate President Trump’s efforts to persuade Pyongyang to give up its weapons. • The U.S. and South Korea are to announce a bilateral trade agreement today. It’s the type of deal that Mr. Trump says benefits American workers, but it may have more to do with geopolitical realities. Advertisement • Fearing an undercount, at least a dozen states signaled on Tuesday that they would sue to block the Trump administration from adding a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. Advertisement Opponents say the question would dissuade noncitizens, and even legal immigrants, from answering. The Trump administration says it’s needed for accurate estimates of voter numbers. The Constitution requires that all residents of the U.S. be counted, whether or not they’re citizens. • Here’s why  an accurate count is important. • Christopher Wylie was “like a pink-haired, nose-ringed oracle sent from the future to explain data” when he testified before British lawmakers on Tuesday, our correspondent writes. Mr. Wylie, the 28-year-old whistle-blower and co-founder of the political data firm Cambridge Analytica, described how personal information about 50 million Facebook users was harvested. He also said that his firm had received help from at least one employee of the defense contractor Palantir Technologies. Palantir was co-founded by Peter Thiel, a Facebook board member and supporter of President Trump. • Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, is said to have agreed to testify in at least one congressional hearing over the social network’s handling of user data. • It’s the latest example of how rarely law enforcement officers are prosecuted for violence against suspects. Advertisement A pair of white police officers in Baton Rouge, La., will not be prosecuted by the state authorities over the fatal shooting of a black man, Alton Sterling, almost two years ago. Last year, the Justice Department also declined to bring charges in the case. Alton Sterling was shot by the police outside a Baton Rouge, La., convenience store in 2016. • Separately on Tuesday, hundreds of demonstrators filled Sacramento City Hall to protest the death of Stephon Clark, an unarmed black man who was fatally shot by two officers last week. John R. Bolton, President Trump’s choice for national security adviser, was portrayed during a 2005 Senate confirmation hearing as a threat to U.S. interests. • Last week, we wrote about a major study of income inequality, focusing on how black boys and white boys raised in wealthy families fare as adults. Here are income mobility charts for other groups, and a tool to make your own comparisons. • Uber says it won’t  renew its permit to test self-driving cars in California until the end of an investigation into how one of its autonomous vehicles killed a woman in Arizona. Arizona’s governor ordered the company to suspend  tests there. • The fashion giant H&M has a problem: $4.3 billion worth of unsold clothes. • U.S. markets fell on Tuesday, led by tech stocks. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today. Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Determine whether your sickness is contagious. • Here’s how to decide if you should tell your boss about your mental illness. • Recipe of the day: Bake a lemon tart with a filling that’s somewhere between a custard and a pudding. Advertisement Our journalists recommend these great pieces: “Facebook’s data laxity, piggybacked on the general theme of fake news, has turned my field — social media — into the topic of the moment. This piece offers a look from the ground up at what exactly social media is, by going inside one of my favorite platforms, Reddit.” [The New Yorker] — Nancy Wartik, Reader Center “Adam Roberts died in January 2016 where he felt most alive: on the ski slopes of the Pacific Northwest. He was buried in an avalanche, an end that friends and even family felt he had courted. This is a story about skiing, and about a gifted and charismatic athlete who had a shot at professional status — but it’s really about ‘the blast zone of mental illness,’ which radiates out into so many lives.” [Outside] — John Schwartz, climate change reporter • New lessons from King’s death The 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is next week. An exhibition at the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis compares contemporary events with the demonstrations he led. We’d also like to hear what his assassination means to you. • A former justice speaks In an Op-Ed, the retired Supreme Court justice John Paul Stevens argues that the Second Amendment needs to be repealed. Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • Tasty, whatever the category It’s hard to say what kind of food Chez Ma Tante in Brooklyn serves, apart from the consistently good kind, our restaurant critic writes. • “Roseanne” is back The ’90s sitcom returned to ABC on Tuesday, and the reboot “has the potential to do something a little deeper and more ambitious than your average nostalgia-fest,” our chief TV critic writes. We spoke with Roseanne Barr, who, like her character on the show, supports President Trump. If you prefer a dash of espionage, we also reviewed tonight’s premiere of the final season of “The Americans.” • Best of late-night TV Trevor Noah was worried about a comment by John Bolton, President Trump’s nominee for national security adviser: “ ‘The earlier you strike, the more damage you can do:’ I think that’s a horrible strategy for keeping peace in the world. Although it is a great strategy for tackling an all-you-can-eat buffet.” Advertisement • Quotation of the day “I no longer have a family. The ruling regime is guilty. Every bureaucrat dreams of stealing like Putin. Every state functionary treats people like garbage.” — Igor Vostrikov, whose wife, three children and sister were among dozens who died in a fire at a mall in Siberia.  • The Times, in other words Here’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles. Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles. This week’s word: torii. Torii (pronounced TOR-ee-ee) are familiar as a symbol of Japan, but many solvers were unsure of the word when it appeared in the March 20 puzzle with the clue “Traditional Japanese gate.” It has appeared 63 times in Times crosswords. The gates, which have a traditional shape and structure, are closely related to the Shinto religion. Typically located at the entrance of shrines or in spots that hold special religious significance, they signal a transition from the profane world to the sacred. By walking through the torii, one has entered the world of the Kami, or Shinto gods. The earliest documentation of the torii in Japan dates to 922, during the Heian period. The structure of the torii varies, but the most important parts are the pillars (hashira), the lintel placed on the two pillars (kasagi) and a tie-beam that keeps the structure together (nuki). For the easier puzzles at the beginning of the week, the word might appear with the clue: “Shinto temple gateway” or “Shinto gateway.” Advertisement Later in the week, it might be referred to as: “Shinto shrine entrance,” “Traditional Japantown feature,” “Decorative gateway in Japan” or “Japanese portal.” Deb Amlen contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here. Check out our full range of free newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com. Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 10:53 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Uber Technologies Inc has agreed to pay $10 million to settle a class-action lawsuit brought by two women engineers who accused the ride-services company of gender and race discrimination. The settlement, disclosed in a filing in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, says Uber also agreed to reforms to its system for compensation, reviews and promotions. According to the filing, the settlement compensates for financial and emotional harm to about 285 women and 135 men of color. The settlement arises out of two actions filed in October, one in the San Francisco Superior Court and another in the California district court. Advertisement On Oct. 24, Roxana del Toro Lopez and Ana Medina, who described themselves as Latina software engineers, filed an action in the Superior Court, followed by another three days later in the district court alleging classwide gender and race discrimination.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The lawsuit said Uber's employee ranking system was "not based on valid and reliable performance measures" and favored men and white or Asian employees. As a result they lost out on earnings, promotions and benefits, they added. Advertisement The lawsuit followed a widely read blog post in February 2017 from another female engineer that described Uber's work environment as one that tolerated and fostered sexual harassment. The settlement includes regular reporting of demographic data to Uber's workforce and to the court, as well as developing a validated promotion assessment process. (Reporting by Manas Mishra and Rama Venkat Raman in Bengaluru; Editing by Sunil Nair) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 8:29 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Consumers in Britain were their most confident in 10 months in March, according to a survey which suggested that they took comfort from a fall in inflation and this month's Brexit transition deal. The headline gauge of consumer confidence, compiled by market research firm GfK for the European Commission, rose to -7 from -10 in February. The median forecast in a Reuters poll of economists had pointed to another reading of -10. "The prospect of wage rises finally outstripping declining inflation, high levels of employment with low-level interest rates, and finally some movement on the Brexit front appear to have boosted our spirits," Joe Staton, head of experience innovation UK at GfK, said in a statement. Prime Minister Theresa May this month secured an outline deal to keep Britain's access to the European Union's single market unchanged for 21 months after Brexit in March next year. Advertisement That political breakthrough was accompanied by economic data that showed a pickup in the pace of wage growth and inflation continuing its fall, having jumped after the Brexit vote. Advertisement However, GfK's consumer confidence measure remained in negative territory, where it has been since early 2016, and another survey published on Thursday found households turned a bit more pessimistic in March.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Opinion polling firm YouGov said its index edged down one point to 107.7, the first fall since November, although households reported an improvement in their finances. Separately on Thursday, the Confederation of British Industry, an employers group, said growth in Britain's private sector slowed in the first three months of the year. The survey of 650 firms showed the balance of companies reporting a rise in output at +8 percent, down from +20 percent in the three months to February, but growth was expected to pick up in the second quarter, the CBI said. The Bank of England said last week it expected heavy snowfall in February and March meant overall economic growth would a bit slower than it had previously forecast. (Reporting by William Schomberg, editing by Alistair Smout) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:35 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  British lawmakers are launching a fresh investigation into how the country is tackling crimes such as money laundering and terrorist financing after a report that billions of pounds of proceeds of crime are flowing into British property. The cross-party Treasury Committee said on Thursday it would also scrutinise the scale and nature of economic crimes faced by consumers, such as scams, how effectively financial companies can combat them and how secure customer data is. The Office of National Statistics (ONS) has estimated there were 3.2 million frauds in the year to last September. "Given the threats that face the UK, the effectiveness of the regimes that we use to protect our financial system from misuse have never been more important," said Nicky Morgan, the chair of the committee. Advertisement The committee wants to grapple with the scale of money laundering, terrorist financing and sanctions in the UK, the current regulatory and legislative landscape and how people, companies and the wider economy are impacted by these regimes. Advertisement It is calling for written evidence by May 8 and will announce who it will call for questioning after that. It is unclear how much money is laundered through Britain in total, but the National Crime Agency (NCA), a UK prosecutor, has said calculations of 36 billion pounds to 90 billion pounds  ($50 billion-$127 billion) are "a significant underestimate".  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Investors from Russia, China and the Middle East have poured billions into London, buying everything from luxury properties to entire companies, but the source of some of those funds has been questioned by transparency campaigners. Transparency International, an anti-corruption group, says it has identified 4.4 billion pounds ($6.2 billion) worth of property in Britain that was bought with suspect wealth. Britain has said it will use new powers, called unexplained wealth orders (UWO), to seize the UK assets of foreign criminals and corrupt politicians and clamp down on dirty money washing through London, in particular. The NCA said in February it had secured UWOs to investigate two properties worth around 22 million pounds it believed were ultimately owned by a "politically exposed person" - someone holding, or close to those holding, prominent public positions. Property can be seized if owners cannot explain the source of funds used to buy assets. False or misleading statements can lead to a fine or two years in jail. ($1 = 0.7071 pounds) (Reporting by Kirstin Ridley; Editing by Mark Potter) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:08 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Chicago's City Council on Wednesday approved a multibillion-dollar expansion plan for O'Hare International Airport, after an earlier dispute between the airport's two largest carriers had previously threatened to snarl the project. "We are investing in capacity, technology and modern facilities that will elevate the customer experience and significantly improve operational efficiencies with our historic $8.5 billion expansion plan," Ginger Evans, commissioner of the Chicago Department of Aviation, said in a statement. The city of Chicago entered into an agreement with carriers United Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and Spirit Airlines for airport renovations that include expanding the airport's existing terminals and increasing the number and availability of some gates. United and American - the airport's two largest airlines - had previously disagreed over the number of gates that would be allocated to each carrier, with American in February accusing United of having engaged in a "last-minute secret deal with the city" to snare additional gates. Advertisement Earlier this month, the two resolved the dispute, with Chicago agreeing to speed up construction of three common-use gates that will come into use at roughly the same time United gets five additional gates. Advertisement American Airlines and its affiliated carriers accounted for 35.5 percent of passengers at O'Hare in 2016, compared with 44.5 percent for United carriers, according to city data.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We commend the mayor and his team for reaching an agreement that ensures O'Hare gives Chicago a competitive edge long into the future and provides our great city the world-class airport it deserves," United Chief Executive Oscar Munoz said in a statement. American also hailed the deal, saying its approval is "what is best for the city of Chicago." The city on Wednesday also approved an initial $4 billion of airport revenue bonds to help finance the overall project. The bonds are intended to fund portions of the new O'Hare Terminal Area Plan and the Capital Improvement Plan. The cash will also help refund outstanding bonds in an effort to save money on prior finance deals. JPMorgan, Citibank and Loop Capital Markets are the lead underwriters for selling the debt. O'Hare is the world's second-busiest airport in terms of take-offs and landings after Atlanta's Hartsfield–Jackson International Airport, according to an Airports Council International 2016 ranking. (Additional reporting by Daniel Bases, editing by G Crosse) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:38 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  U.S. economic growth slowed less than previously estimated in the fourth quarter as the biggest gain in consumer spending in three years partially offset the drag from a jump in imports. Gross domestic product expanded at a 2.9 percent annual rate in the final three months of 2017, instead of the previously reported 2.5 percent, the Commerce Department said in its third estimate for the quarter on Wednesday. That was a slight moderation from the third quarter's brisk 3.2 percent pace. The upward revision to the fourth-quarter growth estimate also reflected less inventory reduction than previously reported. Economists polled by Reuters had expected that fourth-quarter GDP growth would be revised up to a 2.7 percent rate. There are signs that economic activity slowed further in the first quarter, with retail sales falling in February for a third straight month. Housing data have been generally weak and the trade deficit hit a more than nine-year high in January. Advertisement The Atlanta Federal Reserve is currently forecasting the economy growing at a 1.8 percent rate in the January-March period. First-quarter GDP growth tends to be weak because of a seasonal quirk. Advertisement Still, analysts believe the economy will hit the Trump administration's 3 percent annual growth target this year, driven by the $1.5 trillion tax cut package and an increase in government spending. That could keep the door open to slightly more aggressive interest rate increases from the Federal Reserve this year. The U.S. central bank raised rates last week and forecast at least two more hikes for 2018. The Fed also lifted its economic growth projections for this year and 2019. "Tax cuts and stronger government spending will boost average GDP growth to 2.9 percent in 2018," said Gregory Daco, chief U.S. economist at Oxford Economics in New York. "We forecast this environment will lead the Fed to raise interest rates four times this year." There are worries the Trump administration's adoption of protectionist trade measures could sour business sentiment and hurt spending on capital goods. President Donald Trump last week signed a memorandum targeting up to $60 billion in Chinese goods with tariffs over what his administration says is misappropriation of U.S. intellectual property. Trump also has imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. The economy grew 2.3 percent in 2017, an acceleration from the 1.5 percent logged in 2016. U.S. financial markets were little moved by Wednesday's data. Stocks on Wall Street were trading mostly higher, while prices of U.S. Treasuries edged up. The dollar firmed against a basket of currencies, pushing further away from a five-week low in the prior session. SLOW INCOME GROWTH The government also reported on Wednesday that after-tax corporate profits increased at a 1.7 percent rate in the fourth quarter after rising at a 5.7 percent pace in the third quarter. Advertisement As a result, an alternate measure of growth, gross domestic income, rose at a 0.9 percent rate in the October-December period. GDI expanded at a 2.4 percent rate in the third quarter.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The average of GDP and GDI, also referred to as gross domestic output and considered a better measure of economic activity, increased at a 1.9 percent rate in the fourth quarter. That followed a 2.8 percent rate of growth in the prior period. Growth in consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity, was revised up to a 4.0 percent rate in the fourth quarter from the 3.8 percent pace reported last month. That was the quickest pace since the fourth quarter of 2014 and followed a 2.2 percent rate of growth in the July-September period. Imports grew at an upwardly revised 14.1 percent pace instead of the previously reported 14.0 percent rate. That was the fastest pace since the third quarter of 2010 and overshadowed a rise in exports driven by weakness in the dollar. The resulting trade deficit sliced off 1.16 percentage points from GDP growth last quarter, the most in a year, after adding 0.36 percentage point in the third quarter. Trade will likely remain a drag on GDP growth in the first quarter. A separate report from the Commerce Department on Wednesday showed the goods trade deficit rose 0.1 percent in February as an increase in imports slightly outpaced a jump in exports. "The drag (from trade) looks less meaningful than we had previously anticipated, likely coming in around a half percentage point," said Daniel Silver, an economist at JPMorgan in New York. While robust consumer spending curbed the accumulation of inventories, the slowdown in inventory investment was not as steep as previously reported. Inventory investment rose at a rate of $15.6 billion in the fourth quarter instead of the previously reported $8.0 billion pace. Inventories subtracted 0.53 percentage point from GDP growth after adding 0.79 percentage point in the prior period. Advertisement Inventories could contribute to growth in the first quarter. The Commerce Department reported on Wednesday that both wholesale and retail inventories increased solidly in February. There were modest downward revisions to business and residential construction spending growth estimates in the fourth quarter. Growth in government spending was raised slightly. (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Paul Simao) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:18 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Around 5,000 finance jobs will be shifted out of Britain or created overseas by March 2019 because of Brexit, half the number forecast six months ago, according to a Reuters survey of firms employing the bulk of workers in international finance. Reuters approached 164 banks, asset managers, private equity firms, insurers and exchanges with UK operations on their plans for moving staff as a result of Brexit and received answers from 119, against 123 in September. The numbers are different because a handful of insurers, asset managers and exchanges - not banks - who responded in September did not do so this time, while a few new insurers and asset managers were added. Seventy-six companies said they would have to move staff or restructure their businesses because of Brexit, which is due to take place in March 2019. Advertisement Another 29 said Brexit would have no impact, and the remainder said they are still deciding what to do, declined to comment or did not respond. Advertisement The survey was conducted by email and telephone between Feb 9 and March 22. A total of 64 banks responded, along with 37     insurers and insurance brokers and 18 asset managers and private equity firms. Three exchanges who were approached did not respond or declined to comment. The respondents included the 20 investment banks that earned the most fees from investment banking in Europe, the Middle East and Africa in 2016, according to Thomson Reuters' data. Some participants declined to comment on some of the questions. Some participants also asked for the information to be part of an aggregate only, which is why Reuters has not published the complete data. The insurers who responded to the survey included the largest listed insurers in Britain, along with large European Union and non-EU insurers operating in Britain, major insurance brokers and listed and unlisted insurers with an international focus, such as those operating in the Lloyd's of London market. The asset managers who responded included many of the global managers who use the UK as a base in Europe, as well as the leading British firms. Survey participants were asked if Brexit would mean new jobs moved or created in the European Union by March 2019 or by a later date, whether a transition deal would make a difference to their plans, whether their estimates were higher or lower than before and to describe any other steps they were taking. They were also asked how many UK employees they currently have. Sixty-five organizations provided the number of staff they currently employ in the UK.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The employee numbers totaled 477,010. Of those, 359,357 were employed by banks, 105,534 by insurers and 12,119 by asset managers and private equity firms. Advertisement The 48 firms which gave details on their job plans for Brexit together employ at least 375,606 people. A precise number could not be calculated because nine did not answer the question about total employees. The 25 banks in the survey who answered the question about how many jobs would be affected by Brexit said they expected 4,798 jobs to be moved or created in the EU. Thirteen insurers expected 173 roles to be created in the EU in total. Ten asset managers and private equity firms who gave the information saw 304 jobs in total being created. The three exchanges declined to comment or did not respond. There are 317 banks registered in Britain, according to the Bank of England, although that includes the domestic-focused subsidiaries of many larger banks as well as many smaller lenders that earn the bulk of their revenue in Britain so won't be affected so much by Brexit. There are 443 UK authorized insurers, according to the Bank of England, though many larger firms have more than one authorization. Many UK insurers also have a purely domestic focus, insurance specialists say. While the asset managers contacted account for the lion's share of the assets managed in Britain, there remains a long tail of smaller managers registered with the Financial Conduct Authority, a figure it currently puts at 1,840 firms. The Bank of England said in response to a Freedom of Information request from Reuters that it had received contingency plans from 147 banks and 170 insurers regulated by its Prudential Regulation Authority arm. It also said it had received 519 responses about contingency plans from European Economic Area insurance firms and their home state regulators. It said it was not expecting any more responses. (Compiled by Carolyn Cohn and Andrew MacAskill; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:53 A.M. E.D.T.
 DUESSELDORF —  The outlook for air freight remains robust after its best year for business since 2010, but demand for ocean-going cargo is harder to predict, Deutsche Post DHL said on Wednesday. The German company, one of the world's biggest postal and logistics groups, said its Global Trade Barometer for March, a new indicator which uses logistics data to forecast demand for the next three months, rose to 66 points in March from 64 points in January. A value above 50 indicates positive growth for global trade over the next three months. Trade tensions pose a risk to the outlook while Brexit also requires adjustments. However, Deutsche Post could reap business opportunities from Britain's departure from the European Union, an executive told Reuters in an interview. "The main issue for us is changes to customs regulations," Tim Scharwath, head of the group's global forwarding and freight division, said. "But as a logistics expert, that could also present us with opportunities and we will invest in staff and systems if we need to." Advertisement The group is not yet seeing any impact on its freight business from global trade tensions. "A trade war between the EU and the U.S. would not be good for anyone, a dispute between the U.S. and China would also be bad. But until now we have not seen any effect from the debate on trade restrictions," Scharwath said. Advertisement His comments echo those of Lufthansa's air freight arm, Lufthansa Cargo, which saw profits jump last year and said it was optimistic for 2018.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Scharwath said 2017 was the best year for air freight since 2010. "We are confident that this trend will continue in 2018. The development of ocean freight is harder to predict," he said. Deutsche Post's freight division experienced difficulties over the last couple of years due to a failed IT restructuring and Scharwath, a former manager at Kuehne + Nagel, was brought in to improve the unit's fortunes. He said he was concentrating on improving volumes, and profit margins on existing volumes. "When global economies are doing well, it's easier, but you can also grow when the market drops," he said. (Reporting by Matthias Inverardi; Writing by Victoria Bryan; Editing by Edward Taylor and Susan Fenton) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Phys Ed  By                     
 GRETCHEN REYNOLDS
 
MARCH 28, 2018
 Walk for two minutes. Repeat 15 times. Or walk for 10 minutes, thrice. The benefits for longevity appear to be almost exactly the same, according to an inspiring new study of physical activity patterns and life spans. It finds that exercise does not have to be prolonged in order to be beneficial. It just has to be frequent. Most of us who are interested in health know that federal exercise guidelines recommend we work out moderately for at least 30 minutes per day at least five times per week in order to reduce our risks of developing many diseases or dying prematurely. These guidelines also recommend that we accumulate those 30 minutes of daily exercise in bouts lasting for at least 10 minutes at a time. Advertisement The guidelines, first published in 2008, were based on the best exercise science available at the time, including several studies indicating that if exercise sessions were briefer than 10 minutes, they would not increase people’s aerobic fitness, meaning their athletic endurance. Advertisement But improving endurance is not the same thing as improving health. So when scientists and governmental regulators recently began planning a major update to the 2008 exercise guidelines, they decided, as part of their research, to gather the latest studies about exercise bouts and how long workouts should last in order to benefit health. Somewhat to their surprise, they found only a few relevant, large-scale, recent studies, and most of these relied on people’s notoriously unreliable memories of how active they had been. So, some of the scientists working on the new exercise guidelines decided that they would need to mount a major new study themselves. They began by looking for reliable and objective data about ordinary people’s exercise habits. They found it in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, conducted annually for decades by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It details the lifestyles and health of tens of thousands of American men and women. Since 2002, some of the participants in N.H.A.N.E.S. have worn accelerometers to precisely track how much and when they move throughout the day. For the new study, which was published this month in the Journal of the American Heart Association, the scientists chose data about 4,840 men and women past the age of 40 who had worn activity trackers. Using the accelerometer readouts, the scientists determined how many minutes per day, in total, each person had spent in moderate or vigorous physical activity. They defined moderate activity as, in essence, brisk walking, and vigorous activity, which was rare, as workouts similar to jogging. Advertisement The researchers also looked at how long each session of physical activity had continued. If a single session went on for more than five minutes, it was considered to be a “bout” of exercise. If it were shorter than five minutes, it was considered to be sporadic physical activity, such as walking down the hallway or up a brief flight of stairs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. (Originally, the scientists had planned to focus on 10-minute exercise bouts, as currently recommended, but so few of the 4,840 people were active for 10 minutes at a time that the researchers lowered their definition of an exercise “bout” to five minutes.) Finally, they crosschecked death records to determine whether and when participants died through 2011. The scientists found that moving strongly influenced longevity. The men and women who were the least physically active, exercising moderately for fewer than 20 minutes a day, were at the highest risk of premature death. Those who moved more often, especially if they managed about an hour in total of physical activity over the course of the day, cut their mortality risk in half, the researchers found. And it did not matter how they accumulated those minutes. If people walked continuously for five minutes or longer, meaning in exercise bouts, they lowered their risk of dying young. But they gained the same benefit if they walked sporadically in short but repeated spurts, as long as they moved often. “The message is that all physical activity counts,” says Dr. William Kraus, a professor at Duke University who conducted the study with researchers from the National Cancer Institute. “The little things that people do every day,” like walking from their cars to the office or climbing a flight of stairs, “can and do add up and affect the risk for disease and death,” he says. Advertisement Of course, this was an epidemiological study, meaning that it can show only that more physical activity is associated with a longer life, not that it directly causes people to live longer. The study was also short, in terms of how long it followed people. But the results, which will be considered as scientists and experts plan changes later this year to the formal exercise guidelines, are encouraging, Dr. Kraus says. “If you can’t go for a long walk,” he says, “a few short walks are likely to be just as good for you.” A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Guidelines That Need a Workout.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:26 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  Hackers disrupted service over the weekend of a Baltimore computer network that supports emergency calls, forcing the city to resort to manual operations to handle calls, the city mayor's office said. A "limited breach" affecting Baltimore's computer-assisted dispatch system, which is used to support and direct 911 and other emergency calls, was identified Sunday morning, according to Frank Johnson, Baltimore's chief information officer. The disruption was the second cyber attack on a major U.S. city within the past week, coming days after Atlanta was struck by a widespread "ransomware" cyber extortion attack that interrupted bill collection services, downed the airport's wireless internet and impeded other city services. Some Atlanta city services remained offline for a seventh day following last Thursday's ransomware attack. Advertisement Atlanta police said that some parts of the department's operations remained impacted by the attack, though its ability to respond to emergencies had not been affected. Advertisement "As teams diligently work to restore our network, it would not be prudent right now to go into specifics about police operations," department spokeswoman Lisa Bender told Reuters. "We have begun to do some tasks manually, and continue to look for other 'workarounds' so that we can continue to serve the public with the same level of service they have come to expect." City workers turned away residents trying to pay their water bills and attend scheduled traffic court hearings, saying the cyber attack had halted work at those departments.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A senior U.S. cyber security official told Reuters there were no indications the Atlanta attack was related to the one in Baltimore. During the Baltimore outage, details of incoming callers seeking emergency support could not be electronically relayed to dispatchers, forcing call center staff to do so manually, Johnson said. The impacted computer was isolated and taken offline and the computer-assisted dispatch system was fully restored by early Monday morning, he said. "These critical services were not impacted nor disrupted at any time," Johnson said in a statement. A spokesman for the mayor's office declined to say if the city had identified any suspects behind the breach, if any data was stolen or if other city services had been recently targeted in cyber attacks. An FBI spokesman told the Baltimore Sun that the bureau was providing technical assistance. The regional FBI office in Baltimore could not immediately be reached for comment. (Reporting by Dustin Volz in Washington; Additional reporting by David Beasley in Atlanta; Editing by Dan Grebler and Jim Finkle) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:32 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  Amazon.com Inc shares fell almost 5 percent on Wednesday, wiping more than $30 billion off its market value, after news website Axios reported that U.S. President Donald Trump is obsessed with the world's largest online retailer and wants to rein in its growing power. Trump has talked about using antitrust law to "go after" the company because he is worried about mom-and-pop retailers being put out of business by Amazon, Axios reported, citing five sources it said had discussed the issue with him. Trump also wants to change Amazon's tax treatment, the Axios report said, an issue the president raised publicly last year when he called for an internet tax for online retailers, even though Amazon already collects sales tax on items it sells direct to customers. "The president has said many times before he's always looking to create a level playing field for all businesses and this is no different," said White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders, when asked about the Axios report. "He's always going to look at different ways, but there aren't any specific policies on the table at this time." Advertisement Trump has been complaining about Amazon in private, believing the company has become too powerful, another administration official confirmed to Reuters. Advertisement The official said Trump links this to Amazon Chief Executive Jeff Bezos’ private ownership of the Washington Post, which he has called "fake news" for its critical coverage of his administration. Trump regards the newspaper as a mouthpiece for Bezos' business interests, calling it #AmazonWashingtonPost on Twitter.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Amazon did not reply to a request for comment on the Axios report. FAVORITE TARGET Trump has criticized Amazon over taxes and jobs in the past, without offering evidence. The president urging the use of antitrust law to selectively thwart a company would be unprecedented, according to Jeffrey Jacobovitz of the law firm Arnall Golden Gregory LLP. Amazon's stock, which fell as low as $1,386.17 on Wednesday, was last down 4.6 percent at $1,427.83. The shares have nearly quadrupled over the last three years. Tech stocks have been under pressure after Facebook Inc acknowledged this month that user data had been improperly harvested by a consultancy. "With Facebook and regulatory worries, the last thing nervous tech investors wanted to see was news that Trump is targeting Bezos and Amazon over the coming months as this remains a lingering cloud over the stock and heightens the risk profile in the eyes of the Street," GBH Insights analyst Daniel Ives said. (Additional reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Diane Bartz and Amanda Becker in Washington; Sinead Carew in New York; writing by Chris Sanders; editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and James Dalgleish) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Tech Fix  By                     
 BRIAN X. CHEN
 
MARCH 28, 2018
 You may be reeling from revelations that the private Facebook data of millions unwittingly got in the hands of a voter-profiling firm with ties to President Trump. And you may be weighing the pros and cons of deleting your social media accounts altogether. But before you go there, ask yourself a simpler question: Why do you hoard so much data on social networks in the first place? For many of us, our timeline of posts has piled up since we signed up for Facebook and Twitter. While the social networks portray their products as time capsules of your fondest memories and conversations, the experience of poring through past posts is more like rummaging through a digital junk drawer of good, bad and ugly moments. And the hoarded data is just sitting out there for others to see, including potential employers who are doing background checks and any enemies who may be trying to dig up something against us. So why keep eternal timelines? I posed my question to Zizi Papacharissi, a professor of communication at the University of Illinois-Chicago who teaches courses on social media. She said many of us leave up our timeline of posts because Facebook and Twitter don’t make it simple to clean them up. There’s no button to set ablaze a large swath of content, like a year’s worth or even a month’s worth of posts. So we leave everything, including silly comments from our college years and rants we made when we were angry about politics or other matters. Advertisement “If you say something online, it has a different kind of permanence,” Ms. Papacharissi cautioned. “It’s always there to haunt you.” So over the last two months, I decided to do something different by trying to erase that permanence. Specifically, I used web tools to eradicate the vast majority of my Facebook and Twitter posts. Those turned out to be impractical and tedious to use — though automated, the programs were flawed and missed many posts after several attempts. The chore took about five hours, spread out over weeks. Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. While I walked away from the ashes of my digital self feeling less haunted, I confess my methods may not be worth the trouble, though there are other, more practical solutions. Yet cleaning up your timeline is an exercise I recommend in moderation if you care about your privacy. Advertisement Here’s how I did it — and what I learned. Since Facebook and Twitter offer no simple method for doing a mass purging of timelines, you will likely have to rely on third-party tools. I picked two well-reviewed programs: TweetDelete for cleaning up my Twitter account and Social Book Post Manager for handling my Facebook account. TweetDelete was simple to put to work. It’s a web app you install by visiting the tool’s website, tweetdelete.net, and authorizing the application to connect with your Twitter account. From there, you can choose to delete tweets that are more than a week old. The app takes a few minutes to delete large batches of your tweets. One major caveat: Because of a technical limitation, TweetDelete can delete only the last 3,200 tweets on your account. So to clear out roughly 14,000 tweets that were more than a year old, I had to run the app four times. (I’ve had a lot to say on Twitter over the last decade, O.K.?) My Facebook timeline was tougher to manage. After skimming my last 14 years’ worth of Facebook posts, I concluded there was nothing worth keeping. So I opted to purge everything. I installed Social Book Post Manager, a free add-on for the Chrome web browser. This app was more rudimentary: It essentially scrolled through my timeline and clicked on the “delete” button for each of my posts for me. Social Book Post Manager lets you delete months’ or years’ worth of content — or everything, which I chose. The problem was, even after I used the app to scrub through my entire timeline six times, the tool missed about a dozen posts. There is a setting to adjust the speed at which the app deletes posts, and I had to choose the minimum speed to do a complete purge. In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which data from over 50 million Facebook profiles was secretly scraped and mined for voter insights, many Facebook users have decided to delete their accounts — but untangling yourself from a site like Facebook is not as easy as pressing “delete.” The process was agonizing: I watched years of my youth play back in slow motion, including dated, satirical jokes and photos of myself wearing vintage clothing back when that was a fashion trend, before the tool deleted each post one at a time. After I finished scrubbing my Facebook timeline, I concluded that my delete-everything approach was probably not worth most people’s time. And even after all that time, my Facebook timeline was still decorated with posts that my friends had published about me — including photos from my 21st birthday (need I say more?) — because that content was not mine to delete. Advertisement Gennie Gebhart, a researcher who follows privacy and surveillance issues for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital-rights nonprofit, found a simpler approach. She connected her Facebook and Twitter accounts with the app Timehop. To help people reminisce, Timehop every day surfaces photos and posts published from years past on Twitter and Facebook. Ms. Gebhart uses the tool to incrementally audit her timeline to see if there was something from the past she might not want lingering around. She said that she rarely found posts worth deleting, but that most people might enjoy this light exercise for peace of mind — and to protect their public reputations. Facebook representatives said that based on feedback, the company recognized that people had different needs for managing their timelines. So it offers a privacy setting for people to limit the visibility of their older timeline posts. Similar to Timehop, Facebook also occasionally surfaces old memories from people’s timelines to help them reminisce. Twitter did not respond to requests for comment. Beyond the technological difficulties of doing a social media purge, you may decide it’s not right for you. Ms. Papacharissi, the communication professor, said people formed sentimental attachments to their memories on social media, as they do with clothing and old photographs. “They present a timeline of who we were, of who we are now and who we would like to be,” she said. “It’s like this always-on story. It’s difficult to disconnect that.” Brian X. Chen, our lead consumer technology reporter, writes about solving tech-related problems like sluggish Wi-Fi, poor smartphone battery life and the complexity of taking your smartphone abroad. What frustrates you about your tech? Send your suggestions for future Tech Fix columns to brian.chen@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: Scrubbing Timeline Can Be a Chafing Experience.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:42 A.M. E.D.T.
 SEOUL, South Korea —  Shares fell in Europe and Asia on Wednesday as tech stocks extended losses following sell-offs of their U.S. peers overnight. Investors are selling technology-related shares on concern governments might tighten scrutiny over Facebook after it was revealed that users' data was shared with a consulting firm affiliated with President Donald Trump. KEEPING SCORE: Britain's FTSE 100 dropped 1 percent to 6,930.51. France's CAC 40 slid 1.4 percent to 5,043.96 and Germany's DAX lost 1.6 percent to 11,784.17. Futures augured weak starts on Wall Street. Dow futures fell 0.3 percent while S&P futures also retreated 0.3 percent. ASIA'S DAY: Japan's Nikkei 225 sank 1.3 percent to 21,031.31 and South Korea's Kospi slid 1.3 percent to 2,419.29. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index sank 2.5 percent to 30,022.53 while China's Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.4 percent to 3,122.29. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 retreated 0.7 percent to 5,789.50. Stocks in Taiwan, Singapore and other Southeast Asian countries also fell. BAD DAY FOR TECH: Investors cut their holdings of Asian tech stocks after a series of incidents sent their U.S. peers lower again. One of those cases is a report that authorities will investigate a fatal crash that involved a Tesla electric SUV equipped with a semi-autonomous control system. In Asia, Samsung Electronics Co. fell 2.6 percent and Sony Corp. lost 1.1 percent. Softbank Group Corp. slumped 4 percent. Tencent Holdings Ltd. was down 4.6 percent. Advertisement ANALYST VIEWPOINT: "So what spooked markets? Well, it looks like the rearing of the (ugly) Facebook privacy infringement was a convenient excuse to sell-off ahead of the long weekend," Mizuho Bank said in a commentary. OIL: Benchmark U.S. crude lost 68 cents to $64.57 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract declined 30 cents to settle at $65.25 a barrel on Tuesday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 52 cents to $68.94 per barrel in London. Advertisement CURRENCIES: The dollar rose to 105.64 yen from 105.34 yen. The euro fell to $1.2386 from $1.2404. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:48 P.M. E.D.T.
 MINNEAPOLIS —  A former FBI agent who allegedly shared secret documents with a national media organization has been charged months after Attorney General Jeff Sessions vowed to crack down on government leaks. Terry J. Albury, who was an agent in Minnesota, faces two counts of unauthorized disclosure of national defense information. He was charged Tuesday by felony information, which typically indicates a defendant will plead guilty. The charges allege Albury shared two documents with a reporter, including one dated Aug. 17, 2011, that relates to how the FBI assesses confidential informants. The other document, which is undated, pertains to "threats posed by certain individuals from a particular Middle Eastern country," according to the information. The charges say Albury shared the documents sometime between February 2016 and Jan. 31, 2017. Prosecutors don't name a reporter or news organization, but on Jan. 31 of last year, The Intercept posted a story about how the FBI assesses and manages informants. The story references a secret document dated Aug. 17, 2011, that deals with assessing informants and recruiting them by identifying their "motivations and vulnerabilities." Advertisement The Trump administration has made prosecuting government employees who leak sensitive information to the media a high priority. Last year, Sessions pledged to clamp down on leaks, noting that the Justice Department had more than tripled the number of active leak investigations since President Barack Obama left office and that the FBI had created a new counterintelligence unit to focus on such cases. He told members of Congress in November that the department was conducting 27 investigations into leaks of classified information. Advertisement Albury's attorneys, JaneAnne Murray and Joshua Dratel, said in a statement that Albury served the U.S. with distinction domestically and in Iraq and "accepts full responsibility for the conduct set forth in the Information." They also said that as the only African-American FBI field agent in Minnesota, his actions were driven by a "conscientious commitment to long-term national security and addressing the well-documented systemic biases within the FBI."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The local FBI office referred questions to the Justice Department, which is handling the case. A spokesman with the Justice Department declined to comment beyond the charging documents. According to search warrant applications obtained by the Star Tribune, Albury began working for the FBI in 2000 and most recently was assigned to work on counterterrorism and other matters at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. The search warrant applications say the FBI linked references to secret documents in data requests filed by The Intercept to Albury's activity on the bureau's information systems. The FBI also later identified 27 documents — 16 marked classified — that The Intercept published, and found that Albury had accessed more than two-thirds of them. The charges filed Tuesday also allege that from April 7, 2017, to Aug. 28, 2017, Albury willfully kept a document about an online platform used by a specific terrorist group for recruitment, and failed to give it to an officer and federal employee who was entitled to it. ___ Associated Press writer Sadie Gurman contributed from Washington. ___ Follow Amy Forliti on Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/amyforliti . More of her work at: https://apnews.com/search/amy%20forliti . We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:14 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - U.S. shale producer Concho Resources Inc on Wednesday agreed to buy rival RSP Permian Inc in an $8 billion (5.66 billion pounds) all-stock deal that could trigger a wave of consolidation in the fast-growing Permian Basin oilfield. The proposed deal is the largest in the shale patch since 2012 and adds momentum to producers looking to expand drilling in the West Texas and New Mexico shale hub. Permian oil production has soared, now running about 3 million barrels per day and expected to grow by another 2 million bpd by 2025. Corporate mergers and acquisitions in the shale patch have been rare since the oil price collapse in 2014, although there have been large land purchases by Exxon Mobil Corp, Oasis Petroleum Inc and others. That could soon change, analysts say, with crude prices rising to above $64 a barrel. "We wouldn't be surprised if the larger, well-capitalized Permian players leverage their market premium to go after the smaller Permian producers," said Andrew Dittmar, senior analyst at PLS Inc., a data provider that tracks oilfield mergers and acquisitions. Advertisement Smaller companies operating in the Permian, including Abraxas Petroleum, Lilis Energy and Jagged Peak Energy could be targets for consolidation, he said. Advertisement Concho Resources' bid is a 29 percent premium to RSP Permian's closing price on Tuesday. The per acre price is more than $70,000, one of the highest in the Permian, according to PLS. Concho's shares fell 8.3 percent to $143.84 while RSP's were up about 16 percent, both in morning trading on Wednesday. Last year, Exxon agreed to pay up to $6.6 billion to double its Permian Basin holdings and Oasis Petroleum paid $946 million in cash and stock, or about $46,600 an acre, to gain a Permian foothold. The acquisition "allows us to consolidate premier assets that seamlessly fold into our drilling programme (and) enhance our scale advantage," Concho Chief Executive Tim Leach said. A deal would add about 92,000 acres in the Permian, increasing Concho's total to 640,000, and lift its potential resources to about 2.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent, the companies said. The combined company will be 74.5 percent owned by Texas-based Concho and have 27 rigs in the Permian, running the largest drilling and completion programme there.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. RSP shareholders will get 0.320 of Concho shares for each of their shares, worth about $50.24 per share. The deal is subject to approval by shareholders of both companies and expected to close in the third quarter of this year. "Obviously it's a good marker for the market," QEP Resources Inc Chief Executive Charles Stanley told Reuters on the sidelines of the Scotia Howard Weil energy conference in New Orleans. His company recently said it would sell assets in North Dakota and Louisiana and focus on the Permian Basin, allowing Denver-based QEP to more quickly cover its capital expenses by production. Advertisement The oil industry has been discussing the merits of merging resources in the busy Permian Basin as a way to reduce operating costs and increasing shareholder returns. Costs for fracking service are rising about 10 percent to 15 percent as more companies expand drilling to take advantage of higher crude prices. The companies said including debt, the value of the deal is $9.5 billion. The equity value of the deal was calculated based on 155.53 million outstanding shares of RSP. "This is a significant acquisition and a lot of synergies that make sense, said RBC analyst Scott Hanold, adding the 29 percent premium was a reasonable price to pay. The acquisition is likely to add to Concho's earnings in the first year after the deal closes, the companies said. (Reporting by Anirban Paul and Ahmed Farhatha in Bengaluru; Additional reporting by Ernest Scheyder and Gary McWilliams. Editing by Anil D'Silva, Bernard Orr and Shailesh Kuber) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:47 A.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Mexico went down 1-0 to Croatia in a friendly on Tuesday and saw defender Nestor Araujo taken from the field on a stretcher with what looked like a serious injury to his left leg. With the World Cup finals just three months away, the injury to Araujo could be a big blow for the Mexicans, who will face Germany, Sweden and South Korea at the tournament in Russia. Araujo was challenging Ante Rebic when he appeared to get his leg caught underneath the Croatian player. Ivan Rakitic scored the only goal from the penalty spot in the 62nd minute.    Mexico, who beat Iceland 3-0 on Friday, handed a 100th cap to striker Javier Hernandez. (Writing by Jahmal Corner in Los Angeles; Editing by Peter Rutherford) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:30 P.M. E.D.T.
 DES MOINES, Iowa —  Lottery players could have a chance of winning the nation's 10th largest lottery prize, as the Mega Millions estimated jackpot climbs to $502 million. The Friday night drawing will offer players a chance to spend $2 and dream of beating the staggering odds of 302.5 million to one and winning the big prize. Jackpot winners must match all six numbers in a drawing. The $502 million prize is the annuity option, in which a sole winner is paid over 29 years. A winner opting for the cash prize would take home $301 million, minus state and federal taxes. No one has won the Mega Millions jackpot since January. Mega Millions is one of two national lottery games. It's played in 44 states plus Washington, D.C., and the U.S. Virgin Islands. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:33 A.M. E.D.T.
 BERLIN —  Germany's new interior minister has come under fire for picking only men to lead his ministry. The Interior Ministry published a picture earlier this week showing minister Horst Seehofer flanked by eight men and the caption "leadership team of the BMI complete." The picture prompted outrage on social media. It also sparked questions about Seehofer's plans to improve social cohesion — a topic that's part of his portfolio — without any women among his top team. Interior Ministry spokesman Johannes Dimroth dismissed suggestions of sexism, telling reporters Wednesday that "the minister chose those people who in his view were the right ones to tackle the big challenges before us." As leader of the conservative, Bavaria-only Christian Social Union, Seehofer, 68, was criticized previously for only nominating men for his party's ministerial posts. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:51 P.M. E.D.T.
 BALTIMORE —  A Baltimore board on Wednesday authorized a city spending plan extending a multimillion dollar contract with the country's dominant vendor of body cameras for police departments. At the mayor's request, the city's Board of Estimates amended an existing $11.7 million contract with Axon Enterprise Inc. designed to equip some 2,500 city officers with body cams. The contract, which includes the Arizona-based company's software and data storage, is now worth $18.5 million and continues until 2023. In recent years, civil rights activists around the country have called for body cameras following a succession of deadly police shootings and other fatal encounters with citizens, particularly unarmed black men. The 2014 death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and the 2015 death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore were major catalysts. These are boom times for Axon, the name of the Scottsdale-headquartered company's body camera line. More than 17,000 law enforcement agencies in more than 100 countries are now part of its network, according to its website. Advertisement Chad Marlow, an advocacy and policy counsel with the American Civil Liberties Union, said Axon, formerly Taser International, has become the dominant market player largely "because it has leveraged the relationships that it has with police departments based on its Taser products." Advertisement As body cams become more widespread, inconsistencies in how law enforcement agencies around the country deal with the footage have raised concerns among community activists and others who look to the videos to bring greater transparency in police interactions with citizens. Some critics worry the technology is not being used as a tool for transparency, but rather as a tool to further law enforcement interests. "These cameras are going to primarily help the police and prosecutors gather evidence for their prosecutions, which will further exacerbate the immense harms of biased policing," said Harlan Yu, executive director of Upturn, a Washington-based nonprofit which has been studying the issue for several years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Baltimore Police Department has been quite proactive in releasing body cam footage following police shootings, according to Yu. Yet it was not immediately clear whether there was a policy requiring them to do so. With Axon body cams introduced in phases in Baltimore, there are concerns about how some officers have used them so far. Earlier this year, a grand jury indicted a Baltimore police officer on charges of fabricating evidence and misconduct months after public defenders released a body camera video that they say shows him planting drugs in an empty soup can. "How often do cops do this and not get caught? The outcomes of course would be ruinous for defendants, as there would then exist a fake but convincing video that appears to link a suspect to a crime," Yu said. In late January, State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby's office announced it would not charge three other Baltimore police officers who made headlines after getting separately accused of being caught on body-camera video planting evidence last year. Baltimore officers have been instructed to activate their cameras during any interaction with the public, before they turn on their lights and sirens. Under a revised policy, they must keep their cameras on from the beginning of an event until that event is concluded and they have left the scene. Advertisement ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:09 P.M. E.D.T.
 DETROIT —  A missing or damaged safety shield on the end of a California freeway barrier worsened the impact of a crash involving a Tesla SUV that killed a man last week, the electric car maker said on its website. The company also said in the statement that it doesn't know what caused the Model X to crash Friday on U.S. 101 near Mountain View, and it's also unsure if the SUV was operating on its semi-autonomous "Autopilot" system. Tesla said it's working with authorities to recover logs from the damaged SUV's computer. The SUV was traveling at "freeway speed" when it hit the barrier near Mountain View. The California Highway Patrol says the SUV caught fire for unknown reasons. The 38-year-old driver was pulled from the vehicle by rescuers and later died at a hospital. On Wednesday, the U.S. Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which regulates road safety, said it would send investigators to California. The National Transportation Safety Board, which investigates crashes and makes safety recommendations, already has dispatched a two-person team. Advertisement Tesla's semi-autonomous system is designed to keep a vehicle centered in its lane at a set distance from cars in front of it and also can change lanes and brake automatically. Advertisement Photographs taken of the SUV show the front of the vehicle was obliterated. Its hood was ripped off and its front wheels were strewn on the freeway. Two other cars were involved in the crash, but their drivers were not reported injured, the CHP said. Tesla said it in the statement late Tuesday that it was "deeply saddened" by the crash, which it said was made more severe because a crash attenuator, which protects vehicles from hitting the end of concrete lane divider, had either been removed or damaged in a prior accident and was not replaced. "We have never seen this level of damage to a Model X in any other crash," the company wrote.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Tesla also said its owners have driven the same stretch of road with Autopilot on about 85,000 times since 2015, and to its knowledge, there has never been a crash. Tesla says its data shows that a gasoline-powered car in the U.S. is five times more likely to experience a fire than a Tesla. News of the crash investigation helped to send Tesla stock tumbling more than 8 percent on Tuesday. Late Tuesday, Moody's downgraded the company's credit rating and gave it a negative outlook. Shares continued to decline Wednesday, slipping more than 7 percent to $259.45 in afternoon trading. The shares have declined about 14 percent since the start of the year on fears of production delays with the mass-market Model 3 electric car. The NTSB investigation is the second opened by the agency this year involving a Tesla vehicle. In January, the NTSB and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration dispatched teams to Culver City, near Los Angeles, to investigate the crash of a Model S electric car that may have been operating under the Autopilot system. That crash remains under investigation. The investigations come as Congress and federal agencies grapple with how to regulate autonomous vehicles and those with systems that are partially self-driving. Tesla has taken steps to prevent drivers from using Autopilot improperly, including measuring the amount of torque applied to the steering wheel and sending visual and audio warnings. If the warnings are ignored, drivers would be prevented from using Autopilot, the company said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 11:38 P.M. E.D.T.
 TOKYO —  Asian stocks sagged on Thursday after a tech-led retreat on Wall Street while the safe haven yen was broadly lower against the dollar on Thursday amid perceived progress on North Korea issues. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was 0.2 percent lower after swerving in and out of negative territory. Shanghai rose 0.05 percent, Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.35 percent and Australian stocks shed 0.4 percent. Japan's Nikkei rose 0.6 percent with the weaker yen supporting exporter shares while South Korea's KOSPI added 0.1 percent. Advertisement Wall Street closed lower after a rocky session on Wednesday as gains in consumer staples and healthcare were offset by a sharp drop in Amazon shares and a continuing slide in technology stocks. [.N] nL3N1RA5QV] Advertisement "Fears of a global trade war have eased, although concerns still linger about the U.S. technology sector," said Masahiro Ichikawa, senior strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management in Tokyo. "But equities in Asia will receive support from an easing of tensions regarding North Korea, with countries like Japan seeking a summit," Ichikawa added. Japan has sounded out the North Korean government about a bilateral summit, and Pyongyang has discussed the possibility of a leaders' meeting with Japan and other countries, Japan's Asahi newspaper said on Thursday. Earlier, North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un pledged his commitment to denuclearisation and to meet U.S. officials, Beijing said on Wednesday after Kim met with Chinese President Xi Jinping. The yen, often sought in times of market turmoil and political tensions, retraced the gains it made against the dollar earlier in the week. The greenback traded at 106.580 yen  after it rallied 1.4 percent on Wednesday, pulling away from a 16-month trough of 104.560 set on Monday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The dollar also gained against other currencies. The dollar index versus a basket of six major currencies was at 89.987  after reaching a one-week high of 90.147. Global markets were shaken this month when U.S. President Donald Trump moved to impose tariffs on Chinese goods and Beijing threatened to retaliate. Advertisement The United States and South Korea agreed on Tuesday to revise their six-year-old trade pact with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation by Seoul and with concessions for U.S. autos and pharmaceutical companies. Focus was on whether the Trump administration would press China for currency reassurances as part of the trade negotiations, like those secured from South Korea. Fears of a full-blown trade war have eased on hopes that negotiations can bring a compromise, but concerns remained. "Expansionary U.S. fiscal policy should support global trade, but markets will remain attentive to further tensions as the China-U.S. trade saga continues to unfold," wrote economists at ANZ. The euro was a shade higher at $1.2323  after losing 0.75 percent on Wednesday. Sterling was flat at $1.4074  after shedding 0.5 percent overnight on news British retail sales fell in March for the first time in five months. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield was at 2.786 percent  after touching a near two-month low of 2.743 percent overnight on sagging Wall Street shares. In commodities, U.S. crude futures rose 0.4 percent to $64.61 a barrel, partly recovering after dropping 1 percent the previous day when data showed U.S. crude inventories unexpectedly rose last week. [O/R] Brent climbed 0.4 percent to $69.80 a barrel. (Reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro; Editing by Richard Pullin and Eric Meijer) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:03 A.M. E.D.T.
 HONOLULU —  The owner of a fishing vessel that sank off Hawaii over the weekend said Tuesday two massive rogue waves hit the boat, swamping it and forcing the crew to abandon ship. One wave hit the back of the of the 61-foot (19-meter) fishing vessel, the Princess Hawaii, and another hit the side, said owner Loc Nguyen in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. The boat was hundreds of miles off the coast of Hawaii's Big Island at the time. "It was so big, they've never seen that before," Nguyen said. There was "too much water on the top and it went down." Nguyen said the fishing crew had already set about 15 miles (24 kilometers) of line when the waves crashed, knocking five workers into the water. He said the captain, a federal observer and another crew member had been inside and were able to deploy the vessel's life raft. Advertisement The eight people aboard were rescued by the vessel's sister ship about 12 hours later. No injuries were reported. Advertisement Nguyen said he was "very happy" when he talked to the survivors and heard there were no injuries. "I don't care very much about my boat," Nguyen said. "I lost money, OK. But if someone was dead or something, I would feel bad all my life." According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration website, rogue waves are extremely rare but there are several known causes . Swells can travel at different speeds across the ocean, and as they pass through one another they can create "large, towering waves that quickly disappear."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When waves caused by storms go against the normal current, very big waves can also form in the open ocean. Robert Ballard, a National Weather Service meteorologist in Honolulu, said rogue waves can happen in and outside of storm systems and that it's even possible to have two waves come from different directions. "We know that rogue waves can be up to twice or more the size of the seas, the average wave height," he said. But "we don't track particular rogue waves or anything like that." According to the U.S. Coast Guard, the Princess Hawaii was was in 10-foot (3-meter) seas with winds around 20 mph (32 kph) when it sank. ___ This story has been corrected to show the owner said one wave hit the back of the boat, not the front, and another hit the side. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:20 A.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Hamburg's tax office is examining the German activities of U.S. agricultural merchant Archer Daniels Midland over a five-year period in what the company called a routine audit, although sources said ADM could face unforeseen liabilities. Two sources familiar with the matter said the audit had been complicated by the departure of several senior trading officials from ADM's German operations in previous years, of whom some had been made redundant through restructuring. Due to a resulting lack of staff with the experience needed to field the authorities' questions, ADM could have to pay more tax on billions of dollars of turnover, they added. "This should have been a routine tax enquiry. The problem is they don’t have the people with the institutional memory necessary to answer the questions being asked by the tax authorities," one of the sources said. Advertisement Chicago-based ADM, which buys, stores and ships crops and byproducts, is one of the world's biggest grain merchants. Advertisement Since 2014 the group has stepped up efforts to restructure European operations and focus more on its European headquarters in Rolle, Switzerland, scaling down its previously more prominent German HQ in Hamburg, the sources said. Around 200 staff – estimated to account for half of the German office - had left the company in recent years, they said. Both sources said the audit included the use of futures and options by the German office in emissions, coal and electricity markets as well as its grains and freight desks. The first source added that the probe also included derivatives trades on the Chicago Board of Trade that were undertaken by ADM's German office. "Usually it is no problem squaring the hedges with the  exposure of the physical trades. That squaring is normally done at the end of each trading day. For an audit you need the people involved in those trades to be there to explain," the source said. "But the traders and managers and back office people who could explain that relationship are no longer there. There is a tremendous amount of turnover that has to be explained." ADM's revenue from its German office reached $6.4 billion in 2010, $6.2 billion in 2011, $9.6 billion in 2012, $10 billion in 2013, $7.1 billion in 2014 and then dropped sharply to $3.4 billion in 2015, $2.3 billion in 2016 and $2.1 billion in 2017, ADM annual filings showed. Advertisement Data for 2010 and 2011 covered the financial years ending June 30. The revenue data for 2012 to 2017 was for the years ending Dec. 31.    ADM was meant to have paid a standard corporate tax rate of 25 percent in the five-year period, but both sources said it had paid low taxes as a result of carrying forward trading losses and writing off other costs against tax. "The taxable result could be higher if the hedges made through the futures markets cannot be shown to relate to physical trades," the source said. "If that relationship cannot be proven, then losses incurred on the futures market may not be tax-deductible."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Both sources said it was unclear at this stage how much additional tax - if any - ADM could face. A spokesman for the Hamburg city government’s finance department said no information on the case would be released as this area was covered by Germany’s tax confidentiality laws. ADM said in a statement the Hamburg tax office for large enterprises was conducting "a routine tax audit of ADM’s businesses in Germany for the (financial year) period 2010 through 2014". "This is a normal audit procedure in Germany, in which corporate tax audits are conducted in intervals of four to five years. ADM is thoroughly fulfilling all requests of the audit, and, to date, no conclusions have been drawn." ADM added that the audit was "not specific to certain areas of our business".        Both sources said there was no indication of impropriety or market manipulation, nor was the tax authority looking into any such activity. The audit is focusing on any potential underreporting of tax "and the period includes the Toepfer and Wild Flavors acquisitions", the second source said. ADM took an 80 percent stake in German trading house Alfred C. Toepfer International in 2002 and bought the rest of the company in 2014. Also in 2014, it acquired Swiss-German natural ingredients company Wild Flavors. Advertisement DOWNSIZING Germany accounted for 10.4 percent of ADM's revenue in 2010, 7.7 percent in 2011, 10.6 percent in 2012, and 11.2 percent in 2013, then it dropped to 8.8 percent in 2014, 5.1 percent in 2015, 3.8 percent in 2016 and 3.4 percent in 2017, according to annual reports. "Hamburg has basically been downsized from a global corporate headquarters to a country office and a lot of the traders did not go to Switzerland," said a former ADM trader familiar with the Hamburg office, referring to the restructuring. "There would be great difficulty in answering questions about trades five to ten years ago as so many people have left, both front office and back office. I think that would make it difficult even to answer routine tax inquiries." Chinese food commodities group COFCO's trading division  COFCO International has also seen staff upheavals in the past year with the loss of experienced senior traders who were part of Nidera, which COFCO acquired in 2014. ADM is one of a quartet of merchants alongside Bunge, Cargill and Louis Dreyfus - nicknamed the ABCDs after their initials - that has dominated trade in agricultural goods for decades. ADM has been trying to invest in lucrative areas such as natural flavorings and food ingredients to boost earnings in volatile commodity markets and raise margins, hit by low prices. A source familiar with the matter told Reuters in January that ADM had proposed a takeover of Bunge, which could set up a bidding war with Swiss-based rival Glencore Plc. (Reporting by Jonathan Saul in London and Hugh Bronstein in New York and Buenos Aires; Additional reporting by Tom Polansek in Chicago, Michael Hogan in Hamburg and John O'Donnell in Frankfurt; Editing by Dale Hudson) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 Stocks closed modestly lower Wednesday, adding to big losses from a day earlier. Declines in technology stocks and retailers weighed on the market, offsetting gains in health care and other sectors. Energy stocks fell along with the price of crude oil. On Wednesday: The S&P 500 index lost 7.62 points, or 0.3 percent, at 2,605. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 9.29 points, or 0.04 percent, to 23,848.42. The Nasdaq composite slid 59.58 points, or 0.8 percent, to 6,949.23. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks lost 0.54 points, or 0.04 percent, to 1,513.03. For the week: The S&P 500 is up 16.74 points, or 0.7 percent. The Dow is up 315.22 points, or 1.3 percent. The Nasdaq is down 43.44 points, or 0.6 percent. The Russell 2000 is up 2.95 points, or 0.2 percent. For the year: The S&P 500 is down 68.61 points, or 2.6 percent. The Dow is down 870.80 points, or 3.5 percent. The Nasdaq is up 45.84 points, or 0.7 percent. The Russell 2000 is down 22.48 points, or 1.5 percent. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Laurel Graeber By the time spring break arrives, many species are waking up. Young humans, however, sometimes prefer hibernating. Fortunately, New York offers stimulating alternatives: Here’s a roundup of programs to occupy children’s minds in the coming week, when city public school classrooms are empty. MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, QUEENS Moviegoing doesn’t have to be a passive activity. Starting Friday, little visitors can enjoy daily screenings of “The Tale of the Bunny Picnic” (1986), a Muppet television film with an anti-bullying theme, and nearly daily showings of “The Muppets Take Manhattan” (1984), in which the title characters tackle Broadway. Children can then make their own puppets and animations in Springtime Puppet Studio, a drop-in workshop. This Saturday, there’s a movie for teenagers, too: “The Breadwinner” (2017), an Oscar-nominated animated tale  about an Afghan girl who disguises herself as a boy to be able to earn money under Taliban rule. A discussion with two of the filmmakers follows the screening. (718-777-6888, movingimage.us). NEW YORK HALL OF SCIENCE, QUEENS This museum will exercise bodies as well as minds. Next week, its Spring Break Games will include parkour and How Many Zombies Are Too Many Zombies?, a form of tag. “While they’re playing scientists, and potentially zombies, participants learn how mathematical models work,” said Liz Slagus, the museum’s director of public programs and residencies. Wednesday also features the company Killer Snails’ new virtual-reality marine biology game and a family game night. For third- and fourth-grade lovers of biology (and all things gross), the museum’s weeklong Dissection Lab Camp also has openings. (Registration is required.) Projects include examining sheep brains and cows’ eyes. (718-699-0005, nysci.org) NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, MANHATTAN What child doesn’t love a mystery? The fun starts this weekend with “Living History: Pinkerton’s Historic Detectives,” in which young visitors can meet a staff member portraying a 19th-century investigator. From Tuesday through April 6, they can continue as gumshoes by checking out a History Detective Briefcase. Each case — to be returned at the end of the visit — has binoculars, a notepad, activity cards and other materials; it might encourage its bearer to inspect a painting or look into a president’s past. The week will also offer a history hunt, a self-guided search for artifacts like a tricorn hat or a model of Henry Hudson’s ship the Half Moon. (212-873-3400, nyhistory.org) 9/11 MEMORIAL & MUSEUM, MANHATTAN Not a place for children? Think again. Monday through April 6, the 9/11 Memorial & Museum Youth & Family Tour, offered twice daily for ages 7 through 14, is largely “framed around how people responded to 9/11 and how this space that we’re in helps us remember it,” said Jennifer Lagasse, the museum’s assistant director of education programs. The hourlong tour doesn’t minimize the tragedy, but avoids the historical exhibition, which has news footage. Children can make rubbings of the memorial’s carved names and explore the activities in the 9/11 Memorial Art Cart, which include writing and drawing in a journal. The cart even offers suggestions for preschoolers, like looking for certain shapes in the site’s design. (212-266-5211, 911memorial.org) STATEN ISLAND CHILDREN’S MUSEUM Here, a grown-up’s garbage is a child’s inspiration. Monday through Thursday, the Junk Art Workshop will provide materials like plastic containers, cardboard tubes, bottle caps and foam packing peanuts for the creation of whimsical monsters — or any invention. On Wednesday, the museum will also offer the Imagination Playground, a pop-up space with foam building blocks, tubes and connectors, and on Thursday, it will give the fashion-minded paper plates, ribbons and other decorations to make Easter bonnets for a post-holiday parade. (718-273-2060, sichildrensmuseum.org) WAVE HILL, THE BRONX A field course called Woodland Ecology may sound like school, but how many regular classes let you lure earthworms from the dirt to count and identify? This public garden — yes, with woodlands — invites students in Grades 6 through 8 to spend next week studying soil health and decomposition’s role in the ecosystem. The indoor-outdoor adventure includes gathering data on plant diversity and keeping field journals. Space is limited, and registration is required. (718-549-3200, ext. 237; wavehill.org)   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By HELENE COOPERMARCH 28, 2018
 WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s latest effort at banning transgender individuals from serving in the military amounts to what legal experts said is essentially a reprise of an all-too-familiar directive at the Pentagon: the 1994 “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. A slew of medical and legal professionals have already lined up against the newest White House order, issued late Friday night, which experts said may survive only if it is backed by the Supreme Court. That order is based on recommendations outlined by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis in a Feb. 22 memo on the circumstances under which transgender people would be allowed to join or remain in the military. The memo by Mr. Mattis disqualified all people “who require or have undergone gender transition.” Advertisement But he also recommended that, going forward, “transgender persons without a history or diagnosis of gender dysphoria, who are otherwise qualified for service, may serve, like all service members, in their biological sex.” Gender dysphoria is the psychological condition of a person’s discomfort with their biological gender. Advertisement The memo said that transgender troops who would be grandfathered into the system — under an Obama administration policy that allowed them to serve — could be discharged from the military if they continue to challenge the recommendations in courts. Supporters of transgender rights said the recommendations echoed “don’t ask, don’t tell,” which was repealed in 2010 after 17 years of requiring gay men, lesbians and bisexuals in the military to keep their sexuality a secret. “What they’ve basically done is said that if you have gender dysphoria, you’re out, with the exception of being grandfathered in, but if that’s used against them in court, you’re definitely out,” said Brad Carson, the former Defense Department acting under secretary for personnel and readiness during the Obama administration. “They’re also basically saying that if you just keep quiet, we’ll leave you alone,” Mr. Carson said. He suggested that inherent contradiction is where a legal defense of the new policy could fall apart in court. Aaron Belkin, the director of the Palm Center, which focuses on sexuality and the military, said he expects to see more lawsuits filed, including those that will seek to use contradictions within Mr. Mattis’s memo as a basis for complaint. In a report accompanying the new directive on Friday, the Pentagon said that 8,980 service members who identified as transgender were currently serving, and that 937 of those people had been given a diagnosis of gender dysphoria. Mr. Mattis has since refused to discuss the issue, leaving transgender service members in a state of uncertainty. On Tuesday, he declined to answer questions about the new policy because it is a matter of litigation. Advertisement “This is what we do in America,” Mr. Mattis told reporters at the Pentagon. “Anything I say could jeopardize the purity” of the legal case, he said. Already, President Trump’s efforts to ban transgender people from serving in the military, underway since last summer, have been blocked in court.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There are at the moment at least four court cases challenging Mr. Trump’s original ban, announced in a series of Twitter posts last July. Federal judges have ordered that transgender people continue to be allowed to serve pending the resolution of lawsuits filed against the ban. Transgender recruits have continued to join the military, as well. In November, the Pentagon approved a gender-reassignment surgery for an active-duty member of the military. That surgery came three months after Mr. Trump tweeted that “the United States Government will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military.” The president said he decided to issue the ban after consulting with generals and military experts, although Mr. Mattis was given only a day’s notice. Since then, the Defense Department has been scrambling to come up with an explicit policy that adheres to Mr. Trump’s tweet. In his memo, Mr. Mattis cited “substantial risks” about military personnel who seek to change or who question their gender identity. He said that allowing some of them to serve would amount to an exemption of certain mental, physical and sex-based standards, and “could undermine readiness, disrupt unit cohesion, and impose an unreasonable burden on the military that is not conducive to military effectiveness and lethality.” Mr. Mattis’s assertion contradicts a 2016 study by the RAND Corporation, which found that allowing transgender people to serve in the military would “have minimal impact on readiness and health care costs” for the Pentagon. The study estimated that health care costs would rise $2.4 million to $8.4 million a year, representing an infinitesimal 0.04 to 0.13 percent increase in spending. It concluded that there were 2,000 to 11,000 active-duty troops who are transgender. Advertisement Citing research into other countries that allow transgender people to serve, the study projected “little or no impact on unit cohesion, operational effectiveness or readiness” in the United States. In his recommendation to Mr. Trump, Mr. Mattis said the RAND study “heavily caveated data to support its conclusions, glossed over the impacts of health care costs, readiness, and unit cohesion, and erroneously relied on the selective experiences of foreign militaries with different operational requirements than our own.” “In short,” Mr. Mattis concluded, “this policy issue has proven more complex than the prior administration or RAND assumed.” On Wednesday, two former surgeons general described themselves as “troubled” by Mr. Mattis’s recommendations. “The Defense Department’s report on transgender military service has mischaracterized the robust body of peer-reviewed research on the effectiveness of transgender medical care as demonstrating ‘considerable scientific uncertainty,’” Dr. M. Joycelyn Elders and Dr. David Satcher wrote in a joint statement. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: In Transgender Ban, Critics Point to Echoes  Of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:45 P.M. E.D.T.
 Maybe even Flavor Flav would admit, do believe the hype. Shep Garner has brought the noise as Penn State's career 3-point leader, a mark he set when the Nittany Lions routed Mississippi State in the National Invitation Tournament semifinals. Penn State fans at the Garden — which included football coach James Franklin — chanted Garner's name as he moved closer to the record. He hit six to reach 334 in his career and top Pete Lisicky's 332. Garner, a 6-foot-2 senior guard, might put that record out of reach for a few more years with another big game in the NIT championship when the fourth-seeded Nittany Lions (25-13) play No. 2 seed Utah (23-11) for the title on Thursday night. "I'm going to play big in the Garden," Garner said. No word yet if Garner's cousin — Public Enemy rapper Flavor Flav — will be in the house. But Garner doesn't need to check Flav's signature oversized clock to know it's time to win a title. Advertisement "We were a little disappointed not to make the (NCAA) tournament, but we made another goal," Garner said. "We saw we were in the NIT and our goal was to get to New York and win it. That's what everyone wants to do. We put ourselves in a good position to do so." Advertisement The Nittany Lions advanced to the NIT championship game for the third time in program history and first time since winning the 2009 title. Coach Pat Chambers, a former assistant coach under Jay Wright at Villanova, took over in 2011 and has struggled to find any kind of regular success. The Nittany Lions have never made the NCAA Tournament under Chambers and they'll have just their second winning record in seven seasons. But Penn State's 25 wins are tied for second-highest in program history with the 1989-90 team (25-9). The Nittany Lions won a record 27 games in 2008-09. They've won 90 games over the past five seasons, the most by the program during a five-year span since starting Big Ten play in 1992-93. "This has got to be a springboard for us," Chambers said. "As long as they continue to compete, continue to grow, continue to embrace these experiences, it can only help us for our future." Penn State knocked off NIT top-seed Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana, to advance in the tournament. Garner is a senior and star sophomore point guard Tony Carr, who scored 21 points in the semifinal, could leave for the NBA.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It's up to Utah to shut 'em down. The Utes also feel the urgency. David Collette, Justin Bibbins and Tyler Rawson, three seniors, all made pivotal plays down the stretch in a 69-64 win over Western Kentucky in the semifinal. Collette all but guaranteed the Utes would win the NIT before the team left Salt Lake City. "We're coming home with a trophy," he said. Utah, a regular in the NCAA Tournament for years under Rick Majerus and the 1998 national runner-up, will try and win the NIT for the first time since 1947. Winning it all in New York would mean more to Utah coach Larry Krystkowiak than making the NCAA Tournament and experiencing an early exit. Advertisement "I got an email from (92-year-old) Arnie Ferrin who played on Utah's team in 1947 when they won the NIT Championship, and there's still three living members on that team and we were all on a big thread," Krystkowiak said. "When he says to me, 'Coach, one more, man, bring home the trophy' and the pride in all of that — to me that is much more significant than getting to the NCAA Tournament and losing your first game." NIT or NCAAs, the point of playing is to go deep in March and cut down the nets. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 8:35 P.M. E.D.T.
 DUBAI/NEW YORK —  The Saudi Arabian stock market will join FTSE Russell's emerging market index starting in March next year, the company said on Wednesday, a move expected to draw billions of dollars of fresh foreign portfolio investment to the kingdom. Many equity funds around the world benchmark themselves against the index, and they will need to buy Saudi stocks when the change takes effect. With a capitalisation of about $500 billion, Saudi Arabia is the Arab world's largest equity market. The decision is a boost to reforms launched by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who wants foreign investment to create jobs and diversify the economy, which has been hit hard by low oil prices, beyond energy exports. “Saudi Arabia’s inclusion in the FTSE benchmark is the largest event in the emerging markets since 2001, and an important development for global investors,” Mark Makepeace, chief executive of FTSE Russell, told a press conference in New York, referring to the expansion of FTSE’s coverage following its purchase of Barings Emerging Market Index the previous year. Advertisement To prevent Saudi Arabia's large size from destabilising other markets as funds shift money to Riyadh, the kingdom will enter the index in several stages starting in March 2019 and ending in December 2019, FTSE said. Advertisement The kingdom is projected to have a weight of 2.7 percent in the index, which could rise to about 4.6 percent because of the government's proposed public offer of 5 percent of the shares of state oil giant Saudi Aramco, FTSE added. Saudi authorities worked for years to meet criteria to enter the index, tightening rules on corporate governance, modernising the market's settlement system and easing - though not completely removing - restrictions on foreign ownership of stocks. “This development will further diversify the investor base of the Saudi market, and a more diverse investor base often leads to a more mature and less volatile capital market,” Mohammed ElKuwaiz, the chairman of the Saudi Capital Market Authority, said at the New York event. The FTSE decision would likely add almost $5.5 billion (£3.9 billion) of cash from “passive,” index-linked funds to the Saudi market, according to Makepeace. Regional investment bank EFG Hermes has estimated Saudi Arabia will attract about $5 billion of "passive", index-linked funds because of FTSE's decision. In addition, rival index firm MSCI will decide in June whether to include Saudi Arabia in its own emerging market benchmark. A positive decision, which many fund managers expect, could produce around $10 billion of passive inflows. Such numbers may only be the tip of the iceberg; a lot more new money could come from "active" funds, which have more discretion to move between countries. Advertisement All told, Saudi Arabia could see a total of $30 billion to $45 billion of inflows in the next two years if it reaches the foreign ownership levels of markets in the neighbouring United Arab Emirates and Qatar, EFG Hermes thinks. Reaching the levels of Mexico and Russia would mean $90 billion of inflows.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Saudi inclusion is a milestone event in the development of the region’s equity capital markets," said Salah Shamma, head of regional equity investment at Franklin Templeton Investments, which manages some $745 billion of assets globally. "It opens up the region to a dedicated investment pool otherwise unavailable." Shamma added that the Saudi banking, insurance, healthcare, education and consumer staples sectors were potentially attractive. Reforms may create new investment opportunities. A ban on women driving is to be lifted in a few months, which should aid auto-related sectors, and the kingdom plans to develop non-religious tourism for the first time. ARAMCO By increasing the presence of foreign portfolio investors in Saudi Arabia, entry into the FTSE and MSCI indexes may facilitate authorities' plan to list shares in Aramco and reinvest the proceeds in new industries. The government says it aims to sell about 5 percent of Aramco as soon as this year, listing it in Riyadh and possibly one or more foreign markets in what would probably be the world's biggest IPO. Prince Mohammed has predicted the sale will raise at least $100 billion. Many private analysts consider that too optimistic, but Riyadh's market is still likely to need the participation of foreign investors to help absorb the huge IPO. At present, foreign investors of all types own less 5 percent of Saudi Arabia's market. Expectations for this ratio to rise have lifted the Saudi stock index over 9 percent this year. Exchange data show foreigners have already begun buying more stocks, purchasing a net $1.64 billion year-to-date. Advertisement It is not clear, however, whether the market's uptrend will continue in the coming months. The Saudi economy is still struggling with low oil prices, and at a valuation of over 16 times last year's earnings, the market is not cheap compared to MSCI's emerging market index at about 15.5 times. Riyad Capital, a major Saudi investment bank, said in a report this week that the index had now hit its target for 2018 and while a further rise was possible, it might need triggers such as improvement in the corporate earnings outlook. "We ... would avoid jumping on the speculative bandwagon," it said. (Reporting by Andrew Torchia and David French; Editing by Andrew Heavens, G Crosse, Toni Reinhold) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MICHAEL GOLDMARCH 28, 2018
 Walmart customers looking to toss the latest issue of Cosmopolitan magazine into their shopping carts will have to search the superstore a little harder. The retailer has decided to remove the magazine from its checkout aisle displays in its 5,000-plus stores in the United States, in a move announced by a nonprofit anti-pornography group that connected the company’s decision to the #MeToo movement. The magazines will be placed on racks elsewhere, varying by store. The April issue features Cardi B, the reality star turned rapper, who gives an “uncensored and totally amazing” interview inside. Other headlines promise tips on sex toys and foreplay, the secrets of super-close couples and this teaser: “Could you be guilty of micro-cheating? Could he?” Walmart, in a statement, acknowledged that “the concerns raised were heard” but said that its decision stemmed from business reasons. Advertisement “As with all products in our store, we continue to evaluate our assortment and make changes,” the statement said. When asked for further comment, Walmart indicated that there are a number of factors it evaluates when making in-store placement decisions, including customer feedback and sales data. Advertisement Nevertheless, the National Center on Sexual Exploitation, an advocacy group that has campaigned against what it calls Cosmopolitan’s “hyper-sexualized and sexually objectifying” content, took some credit for the move on Tuesday, citing its “collaborative dialogue” with Walmart. “This is what real change looks like in our #MeToo culture,” said Dawn Hawkins, the group’s executive director, in a statement. A Cosmopolitan spokesman declined to directly address the group’s description but emphasized the publication’s focus on female empowerment. “We are proud of all that the brand has achieved for women around the world in the areas of equality, health, relationships, career, politics and social issues,” he said in a statement. The magazine, which will still be available for purchase on periodical racks on Walmart stores, has been a focus of the nonprofit group for years. In 2015, the organization started a campaign to get stores to shield Cosmopolitan’s headlines and covers behind blinders or wraps similar to those that frequently cover pornographic material. At that time, it worked with Victoria Hearst, the granddaughter of William Randolph Hearst, who founded Cosmopolitan’s publisher, the Hearst Group. The joint effort appeared to be successful. Ms. Hearst, who now runs a “Cosmo Hurts Kids” campaign aimed at stopping the sale of the magazine to children under 18, was not involved in the center’s current push, according to according to Haley Halverson, the organization’s vice president for advocacy and outreach.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The group, which was founded in 1962 and was previously known as Morality in Media, has continued to focus on Cosmopolitan in part, Ms. Halverson said, because the magazine was “targeting young girls” with its messaging. Advertisement “A young teenager who first picks up Cosmo is going to be attracted to the bubble gum pink cover and to stories about Selena Gomez and One Direction,” Ms. Halverson said. “But within the covers, Cosmo is filled with extremely explicit articles that detail things like sexting, pornography, group sex, public sex and other forms of risky sex that actually a lot of young girls today are being pressured to do before they’re ready.” Ms. Halverson also said the group viewed its efforts as especially important in the midst of the continuing conversation around sexual harassment that was sparked by the #MeToo movement. “Cosmopolitan really likes to wrap itself up in its faux feminist mystique where they’re claiming that because they’re talking about sex, it’s liberating to women,” she said. “But it’s time to raise the level of discourse and say, ‘Well, are they talking about sex in an actually empowering or productive way?’” When asked, Ms. Halverson could not think of an example of a publication or media organization discussing sexuality in the manner she described. The statement linking Cosmopolitan to #MeToo culture was met with some skepticism online. The magazine has written multiple articles about the #MeToo movement, as well as the sexual assault and consent issues at its center. In an article for Vogue, Michelle Ruiz, a former sex and relationships editor at Cosmopolitan, wrote that the publication has long advocated for consensual adult sex and has recently shifted its focus to women’s sexual pleasure. 
            Walmart using #MeToo as an excuse to stop selling Cosmopolitan in checkout lines is pretty ridiculous. Censoring frank information about sex feeds into rape culture by denying girls knowledge about their sexuality and choices they can make for themselves.https://t.co/gyPllZ7QFV pic.twitter.com/YiwQQF0Vd7  
            The grossest thing is how these folks are blatantly distorting what the #MeToo movement is about to justify pushing Cosmo off of Walmart checkout shelves. https://t.co/YRn8mEBNWH  
            a conservative religious group cites #MeToo for why Cosmo should be removed from shelves. keep that phrase out of your mouth + focus on teaching men to act right, not blaming women who express their sexuality in the mildest, most hetero of ways. https://t.co/iLlyGLWV8L  John Harrington, a publishing industry consultant who until 2015 published a newsletter covering the magazine business, linked Walmart’s decision to larger trends. As magazine sales continue to decline, Mr. Harrington said, it was likely that Cosmopolitan’s sales at Walmart were following that trend. But he also said that the retailer historically had appeared more responsive than other retailers to pressure from outside groups. In the past, “they have occasionally moved magazines like Cosmopolitan and Glamour on an issue-by-issue basis,” Mr. Harrington said. Advertisement In 2003, Walmart announced plans to obscure the covers of those two publications, as well as Redbook and Marie Claire. That same year, its stores also stopped selling the men’s magazines Maxim, Stuff and FHM after pressure from Christian groups. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: No More Cosmo at Walmart Checkout.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:29 A.M. E.D.T.
 MILAN —  Technology companies led European stocks lower on Wednesday on persistent concerns over a regulatory crackdown and falls in major tech stocks overnight. The pan-regional STOXX 600 benchmark index was down 1.1 percent by 0909 GMT, with tech leading the fallers, down 2.5 percent, after shares in Facebook fell further on continued privacy concerns. A further fall in bond yields also put pressure on the heavyweight banking sector. Shares in electric car maker Tesla fell on Tuesday after a fatal crash and fire prompted a U.S. federal field investigation, while Twitter tumbled after short-seller Citron Research called it "most vulnerable" to privacy rules. Meanwhile, chipmaker Nvidia Corp suspended self-driving car tests, a week after an Uber autonomous vehicle struck and killed a woman in Arizona. Advertisement Tech was a key driver behind a rally to record highs in global equity markets and investors are concerned that an increase in regulation could spark a further sell-off. Advertisement "A recent stream of negative news has acted as a trigger for the sell-off in the U.S. tech sector. But the underlying cause... is extremely stretched valuation metrics that have generated a sizeable misalignment with fundamentals, mostly for the big technology stocks," said UniCredit in a note.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. On a price to earnings basis, European and U.S. technology stocks are valued around their highest level in more than a decade. European tech stocks have fallen 9.5 percent from their end-2017 peak but remain among the best sectoral performers in the region over the last year, up 2.5 percent. Top fallers among European tech stocks were chipmakers ams, STMicro and Infineon. "As concerns semiconductors, the fear comes from the environment of bad news that is accumulating around the functioning and testing of autonomous vehicles," IG analyst Alexandre Baradez said. Among banks, big fallers included Commerzbank, UBS and Credit Suisse, which all declined by more than 1 percent, after German bond yields fell below 0.5 percent for the first time since early January. The fall in bond yields helped defensive stocks like utilities with steady dividends outperform. Europe's utilities index was the only sector in positive territory, up 0.2 percent, led by a 3.1 percent jump in Britain's United Utilities, which was underpinned by an upgrade to hold from sell by CFRA. (Reporting by Danilo Masoni; Editing by Tom Pfeiffer and Alexander Smith) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 8:08 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Diners are still flocking to the elegant, glass-domed dining room at 1 Lombard Street, despite uncertainty about London's future after Britain exits the European Union next year. But the restaurant's owner, former banker Soren Jessen, says Brexit is hampering his ability to hiring qualified staff. Reuters has created a tracker that monitors six indicators, including restaurant and bar license applications, to help assess the fortunes of "the City" as Brexit talks progress. The second edition of the tracker shows signs of a slowdown, with the number of venues with licenses to sell alcohol in the City of London falling 1.6 percent in 2017. Advertisement The number of venues applying for new licenses was flat compared with the previous year, the data shows, although the City of London Corporation said such fluctuations were normal. Advertisement Below are excerpts from the latest interview with Jessen. Q: What are you seeing now – is there anything different? A: We've seen difficulty in hiring staff and difficulty in sourcing the right people for new jobs. We're not getting the flow that we would normally see. But (what) we're not seeing yet is a change in customers' behavior... We're still busy. We are apprehensive to see if there will be reaction in people's spend or people going out less, but so far we haven't seen that. Q: Last time you mentioned how important EU citizens are for your sector and your staff - that remains the same I presume? A: They're crucial, not only because I'm opening two new restaurants this year that we need new staff (for), but to just keep the widest possible sourcing we need the whole world to be available and if we can only source from British staff it'd be a huge problem for the whole sector, the industry. Q: The figure you put on it last time was that you had twenty percent of the applicants you had the year before, is that around the same?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A: It’s probably the same number but we get the quality of the applications and less people have less experience. So… if we're looking for an assistant manager or a sort of mid-management level we might get one in 30 applicants that we would get before. We'll get a lot of applicants (from) the entry level, but they are not qualified. Q: What's stopping people coming - is it the lack of clarity in the living rights of EU citizens? A: It’s definitely that, lots of people who just think of other places, and England or Britain has now sent a message, a quite strong message, that we're not that keen on people coming from abroad. That alone I think makes a lot of young people think 'well, I can go to Berlin and go to Portugal'... Q: Since the vote, how has business changed in terms of customer mood? A: I think there is a change in dining out in London that's happened over the last 5-10 years and it's changed from expensive, celebratory, extravagant, much higher-end gastronomic dining to much more casual dining. But the frequency I would say is the same or up. So the change is more in terms of spend and the type of dining out, but dining out is as busy as ever. Advertisement Q: Last time we spoke, you said there was a 'wait and see' approach in the industry – do you think that's still the case? A: Definitely. I think that if you're looking for places (to rent) it's a good change because there are places, more places available and less people competing for the same space. It's a welcome change in (that) there are more properties available for good restaurants. Q: In terms of the Brexit negotiations, what issues do you think need to be resolved for you to see progress on the issues that are really concerning you? A: We just need some clarity on what's going to happen and when. We need some dates. I think eventually the outcome will be something we can live with, but not knowing is something we can't live with for very long. Q: Do you think that there’s been quite a lot of reputational damage done to Britain? A: There’s been huge reputational damage in the sense that Brexit, from the outside world, is seen as retrenching into old Britain and not embracing the future and not being open to other cultures, and young, energetic, innovative people coming from abroad. I don't think that would eventually be the case, but that's been the message and it’s hugely negative. (Reporting by Ciara Lee; Writing by Mark Hanrahan; Editing by Alexander Smith) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:27 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Shares in Ireland-based drugmaker Shire Plc jumped higher on Wednesday after Japanese rival Takeda said it is considering a takeover offer. Shire's shares rose 21 percent to 37.10 pounds in London, putting the company's market value at 33.7 billion pounds ($47.2 billion). Takeda said in a statement that buying Shire would enhance its R&D and its reach into the U.S., where Shire has a big presence. It said its consideration for a takeover "is at a preliminary and exploratory stage and no approach has been made to the board of Shire." Shire focuses on rare diseases, a field that has become of increasing interest to pharmaceutical companies as patents on established drugs expire and competition from generic versions increases. While it is headquartered in Dublin, Shire has large operations in the U.S., where it gets over two thirds of its revenue. Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. has, like many Japanese companies, been expanding overseas to compensate for slowing growth at home. Last year it bought Ariad Pharmaceuticals of Cambridge, Massachusetts. It is valued at about $41.6 billion and makes almost half of its sales in Asia, and about a third in the U.S. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:41 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Fund managers have begun to ditch so-called FANG stocks that powered the U.S. stock market to record highs in January and are slowly rotating into commodity-related shares and other value stocks which typically outperform in late-cycle recoveries. Portfolio managers holding shares of Facebook Inc, Amazon.com Inc, Netflix Inc, and Google-parent Alphabet Inc say they are increasingly concerned that the data scandal that has sent shares of Facebook down nearly 15 percent year-to-date will spill over into all of the FANG stocks, imperiling the broad market's momentum at a time when there are no clear companies or sectors to take their place. On Tuesday, an index which tracks the FANG stocks along with six other mega-cap technology stocks tumbled 6.3 percent, the biggest decline since September 2014. Facebook rose as much as 1.5 percent in early trading Wednesday before falling into the red, one day after sources told Reuters that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg plans to testify before Congress. Amazon.com dropped 4 percent, while Netflix fell 5 percent. Google-parent Alphabet was slightly positive. Advertisement "There are legitimate concerns over the business models of these companies, and I expect that they will be ironed out in legislation" that will likely eat into their profit margins, said Michael Cuggino, a portfolio manager of the $17-billion Permanent Portfolio funds. Advertisement Cuggino, who would not say whether he was selling any of his shares in Facebook, said that commodity and industrial stocks look more attractive now given rising inflation and continued global economic growth. Each FANG company rose more than 33 percent last year, helping power the S&P 500 to a nearly 20-percent gain. Yet those gains have left the broad S&P 500 trading at a high trailing price-to-earnings ratio of 21.7, leaving it overpriced despite a boost to margins from the Republican-led corporate tax cut at the end of 2017. "Rising volatility and changing market leadership are now pointing towards the possible conclusion that the stock market peaked in late January 2018," said Douglas Kass, president of Seabreeze Capital Management. The S&P 500 is now down 2.2 percent for the year, and down nearly 10 percent below the high of 2872.87 it reached on Jan. 26.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. UNFRIENDED Fund managers say that the high valuation of FANG stocks and the likelihood of regulation are pushing them into traditional value stocks like energy and defense companies. Connor Browne, a portfolio manager at Thornburg Investment Management, said that he sold his shares of Netflix and Amazon.com last year after both companies blew through his price targets. He used those gains instead to increase positions in energy stocks such as pipeline operator Enterprise Products Partners LP and crude oil shipping company Overseas Shipholding Group Inc that stand to benefit from the recovery in the price of oil. "We noticed that in all of this excitement over the FANGs taking over the world, there are parts of the economy that seem really out of favor and offer more compelling opportunities," he said. Even after the selloff, FANG stocks continue to trade at higher valuations than the broad market. Netflix trades at a P/E of 210 and Amazon.com trades at a P/E of 327. Facebook and Google-parent Alphabet, both of which have been directly linked with privacy concerns, now trade at valuations near 52-week lows. Advertisement The overhang of increased government oversight has sunk the fortunes of large technology companies in the past. Microsoft Corp reached a settlement in an antitrust case with the Department of Justice in 2002 that lasted until 2011, contributing to a long period of underperformance that kept the stock below the high it reached in 1999 until 2016. Since then, the stock is up nearly 60 percent on the strength of its cloud-based services. Margaret Patel, a senior portfolio manager at Wells Fargo Funds, said that she has been adding to defense stocks like Raytheon Co that should benefit from increasing military spending in both the U.S. and overseas. At the same time, she is increasing her exposure of non-FANG technology stocks like Adobe Systems Inc and Microsoft that have been hurt by the recent sell-off in the sector. "It's very hard to see another sector that still has all the fundamental drivers for growing much faster than any other sector," she said. (Reporting by David Randall; Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Nick Zieminski) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:38 A.M. E.D.T.
 SYDNEY —  Australia's embarrassment over the ball-tampering scandal showed little sign of easing on Wednesday even as former captain Steve Smith, vice captain David Warner and batsman Cameron Bancroft headed home in disgrace from South Africa. The trio, stripped of their positions, will discover the full extent of their punishment in the next "24 hours" with Cricket Australia chief James Sutherland promising "significant sanctions" at a news conference in Johannesburg. Sutherland and his governing body, under pressure from sponsors and in the midst of negotiations over a new broadcast deal, know they have plenty of work to do over the coming months to restore the image of the sport in Australia. The chief executive's decision in his news conference to studiously avoid using the word "cheating" to describe the conspiracy to scuff up one side of the ball with gritty tape would appear to have been an early false step on his part. Advertisement Social media slammed him for his equivocation and Australia's Foreign Minister Julie Bishop, one of series of politicians up to and including the Prime Minister to have commented on the matter, showed no such reticence. Advertisement "Of course it was cheating," she told reporters in Canberra. "Any act to gain an unfair advantage acting illegally in sport is cheating." Cricket is Australia's one genuinely national sport and the disgust at the incident has played out in the media, social and traditional, for the last four days. The two biggest previous assaults on the integrity of the game in the country were England's 'bodyline' tour of the 1930s, when Australia were the victims, and the "underarm bowling" scandal of 1981. "DEAD AND BURIED" That incident, where Australia captain Greg Chappell instructed brother Trevor to bowl the final delivery of a one-day international underarm to prevent New Zealand from hitting a six to tie, has hurt the pride of the nation ever since. "The underarm incident has been well and truly dead and buried by this one," Tim King said on the streets of Sydney on Wednesday. "People who are paid that sort of money, by us, watching television, buying tickets, buying merchandise... it's a disgrace what they've done. Certainly I hope that Warner and Steve Smith never get to play the game again."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Husband and wife Darryl and Sally Llewellyn, both cricket fans, agreed. "I think it's a big embarrassment," said Sally. "I mean, there's no need for the Australians to cheat because they're a bloody good team. So, yeah, it's very disgraceful." Darryl concurred with many on social media, including former England batsman Kevin Pietersen, in casting doubt over whether coach Darren Lehmann had been unaware of the plot, as the Cricket Australia investigation concluded. Advertisement With reports in the British media that he was about to resign having proved baseless, Lehmann is free to serve out his contract until after the Ashes tour of England next year. He is certain to have to do so with a new captain and at least part of it with a new top order after both his openers, Warner and Bancroft, and his best batsman, Smith, were sent home. Joe Burns, Matthew Renshaw and Glenn Maxwell are on their way to South Africa to plug the gaps for the fourth test against the Proteas, which starts in Johannesburg on Friday with the tourists needing a win to tie the series 2-2. Tim Paine, who made his debut alongside Smith against Pakistan in 2010 but had a significantly less successful career since, will lead the side after being announced as Australia's 46th test captain by Sutherland on Tuesday. It marks a remarkable turnaround for a player who was considered a surprise selection when he was included as wicketkeeper for last year's Ashes series. "Three and a half months ago he was thinking he might never play (domestic) Sheffield Shield cricket again, now he's the captain of Australia," former test bowler Stuart Clark told Fox Sports TV.  "He'd some big shoes to fill given those that have gone before him. I know Tim, Tim's a good guy, Tim knows cricket. He's led Tasmania a little while. "It's a big ask given what's gone on before but there's no reason why he won't be successful at it. It's important to start the process of restoring the faith in the Australian cricket team." (Additional reporting by Jill Gralow; Editing by John O'Brien) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:00 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  The White House on Wednesday hailed a revamped trade agreement with South Korea as a vindication of President Donald Trump's hard-nosed approach to international trade. "It's a big deal and a major win for American workers and American businesses," said White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders. Many trade analysts are skeptical that the changes Trump's team negotiated to the six-year-old U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) will make a dent in America's massive trade deficit or do much to increase U.S. car sales in the near-impenetrable South Korean auto market. The two countries had a big incentive to reach a deal and ease friction over trade. The two political and military allies need to present a united front ahead of Trump's meeting with reclusive North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Advertisement But the administration also clearly used the threat of steep tariffs on imported steel as a cudgel to win concessions from Seoul. Advertisement "This is a big eyebrow-raiser," said Christine McDaniel, senior research fellow at George Mason University's Mercatus Center, which promotes free-market economics. "If this is what this trade team can do, I am cautiously optimistic" the U.S. can persuade trading partners to agree to more favorable trade arrangements, including a rewrite of the North America Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico. The South Koreans agreed to double — to 50,000 — the cars each U.S. automaker can export annually to South Korea under less-stringent U.S. safety standards, reduce bureaucratic barriers to American products and let U.S. pharmaceutical companies sell advanced medicine in South Korea at premium prices. The United States also extended a 25 percent tariff on South Korean pickup trucks by 20 years, through 2041. U.S. Trade Rep. Robert Lighthizer last July began negotiating changes to the U.S.-South Korea free trade agreement that took effect in 2012. The original deal was supposed to benefit both countries, but the results proved mostly one-sided: The U.S. trade deficit in goods with South Korea ballooned from $13.2 billion in 2011 to $22.9 billion last year, hitting a peak of $28.7 billion in 2015. The United States says South Korea failed to live up to the pact by using nontariff barriers, such as rigorous customs inspections, to block U.S. products. Trump has called the 2012 "horrible." Washington gained negotiating leverage this month when it slapped a 25 percent tax on imported steel from around the world —saying a reliance on foreign steel posed a threat to U.S. national security — and invited its trading partners to negotiate their way out of the tariffs. In the KORUS talks, South Korea wriggled out of the steel tariffs, but at a cost: It agreed to limit steel exports to 70 percent of its average annual shipments to the United States from 2015 to 2017. McDaniel at the Mercatus Center says South Korea may have preferred quotas to tariffs because a considerable amount of the steel it sends America actually originates in China. It could meet the quota partly by reducing or eliminating the Chinese steel it passes along to America, indirectly helping Washington punish China for flooding world markets with excessive amounts of steel.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The new deal also included procedural changes that could make it harder to crack down on South Korea for allegedly dumping products in the U.S. market at unfairly low prices or for subsidizing its exporters. Advertisement And by making concessions in the auto market and agreeing to steel quotas, South Korea fended off U.S. plans to use the trade talks to negotiate wider access to the restricted South Korean farm market. "The Koreans basically paid the United States to back off on major reforms" to the original free-trade agreement, says Jeffrey Schott, senior fellow in trade policy at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. Analysts have doubts that the expanded access to South Korea will pay off for the American auto industry. "It's not really going to make a difference," says Rebecca Lindland, executive analyst at Kelley Blue Book. "The demand for U.S. vehicles just isn't really there. "The biggest barrier is just cultural," she says: South Korean consumers tend to prefer home-grown autos from Hyundai or Kia. Last year, the U.S. exported just 53,000 passenger vehicles to South Korea — a fraction of the 929,000 South Korea shipped to America. "It's unclear how the proposed changes to the pact itself would reverse the doubling of our Korea trade deficit under KORUS," Lori Wallach, director of Public Citizen's Global Trade Watch, which is critical of many U.S. trade agreements. Bryan Riley, director of the Free Trade Initiative at the conservative National Taxpayers Union, says that by extending tariffs on pickup trucks and limiting South Korean steel imports the new agreement moves in exactly the wrong direction. "Trade agreements should be about removing barriers, not erecting new ones and extending existing ones," he said. "Will they rename this 'U.S.-Korea Unfree Trade Agreement?'" ____ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:39 A.M. E.D.T.
 TOKYO —  Nissan Motor Co Ltd on Wednesday said it would resume building and selling cars in Pakistan next year, becoming the latest global automaker to operate in a market tipped to expand in coming years as vehicle ownership increases among a growing middle class. The Japanese automaker said it would start producing its entry-level Datsun brand at a plant in Karachi owned by partner Ghandhara Nissan Ltd, which will invest 4.5 billion Pakistani rupees ($39.00 million) to upgrade facilities after Nissan ended local production in 2010. Nissan joins automaking partner Renault SA, along with Hyundai Motor Co and Volkswagen AG in announcing increased presence in Pakistan after the government in 2016 introduced policies to promote growth in the auto industry, dominated for decades by Japanese automakers including Toyota Motor Corp and Honda Motor Co Ltd. With a population of nearly 200 million people and growing, Pakistan is a market with big growth potential, posting annual sales of 200,000 cars in 2017, up 60 percent from 2014. That  compared with sales of over 2 million passenger vehicles a year in neighboring India, which has a population of 1.3 billion. Advertisement "There's a big population and the level of (car ownership) is low. It's a good-sized market which is growing," said Peyman Kargar, a senior vice president at Nissan who heads operations in Africa, the Middle East and India, adding that the country's annual sales were likely to grow to 300,000 by 2022. Advertisement The Ghandhara Nissan plant, which has an annual capacity of 6,000 vehicles, would produce "several (Datsun) models based on the same platform to optimize the investment", Kargar said, declining to name specific models.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In neighboring India, Nissan markets its Datsun Go series of compact hatchbacks and people-carriers, while it launched its new Cross compact crossover sport utility vehicle (SUV) in Indonesia earlier this year. It will contribute technical assistance in the upgrade, while the automaker will also assess and assist local components makers in supplying parts. Kargar said he hoped local parts would initially comprise around 20 percent of vehicles, increasing afterwards. Comprising 6 percent of global sales, Africa, the Middle East and India is a growth area for Nissan, and Kargar said he expected to double the region's contribution to overall sales by 2022. Nissan's bet on Datsun to succeed in Pakistan comes as increasing sales of the entry-level brand has been a bright spot in India, a highly competitive market where the automaker's market share has eased to around 1.6 percent due to sluggish demand for its marquee Sunny sedan and its SUVs. In the 11 months to February, Nissan posted an 8 percent fall in overall Indian vehicle sales. ($1 = 115.3800 Pakistani rupees) (Reporting by Naomi Tajitsu; Aditional reporting by Aditi Shah; Editing by Christopher Cushing) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:06 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Tottenham Hotspur's impressive performances against difficult opposition this season has given the Premier League club the belief they need to win at Chelsea on Sunday, midfielder Lucas Moura has said. Tottenham have not beaten their London rivals at Stamford Bridge since 1990, when Gary Lineker scored the winner in a 2-1 league victory. Mauricio Pochettino's side are keen to end their poor record against their neighbours and Moura believes wins over their league rivals, as well as good displays in their recent Champions League last-16 defeat by Juventus had boosted the club's confidence. "This year we are very good. We've had great games against Manchester United, Arsenal and even against Juventus over two matches. I'm sure we can produce a great game against Chelsea," Moura told the club's website (http://www.tottenhamhotspur.com). Advertisement "It's a big game and I can't wait. I'm excited to be around, to hopefully be involved and I believe firmly we can win." Advertisement Brazilian winger Moura signed for the club from French side Paris St Germain in the January transfer window for a fee of around 25 million pounds ($35.3 million).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The 25-year-old has made six appearances for Tottenham in all competitions this season, scoring one goal and providing three assists. The match against Chelsea could be his biggest challenge so far and Moura is hoping to make a difference. "I've been waiting for this kind of match. The Premier League is the best league in the world and I'm happy to be here," he added. Tottenham are fourth in the league table with 61 points from 30 matches, one place and five points above Chelsea. (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; Editing by Christian Radnedge) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:21 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  The Latest on Supreme Court arguments over partisan gerrymandering (all times local): 11:15 a.m. The Supreme Court seems unsettled about how and whether to address the issue of drawing electoral districts for partisan advantage. Their decision could affect how elections are conducted around the country. The justices seemed to be struggling Wednesday with an appeal by Republican voters in Maryland who object to a congressional district that Democrats drew to elect a candidate of their own. The Maryland case is a companion to one from Wisconsin in which Democrats complain about a Republican-drawn map of legislative districts. That case was argued in October and remains undecided. Justice Stephen Breyer suggested that the court could add in yet a third case involving North Carolina's congressional district and set another round of arguments to deal with all three states. Advertisement ___ 12:05 a.m. The Supreme Court is taking up its second big partisan redistricting case of the term amid signs the justices could place limits on drawing maps for political gain.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The justices are hearing arguments Wednesday in an appeal filed by Republicans in Maryland. They complain that Democrats who controlled the state government in 2011 drew a congressional district for the express purpose of ousting the Republican incumbent and replacing him with a Democrat. In Wisconsin, Democrats are challenging legislative districts drawn by Republicans statewide. Those districts gave Republicans a huge majority in a state that otherwise is closely divided between the parties. Advertisement The Supreme Court has never struck down districts for being too partisan. A decision in both cases is expected by late June. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:00 P.M. E.D.T.
 Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Thursday: 1. WHO'S LATEST CABINET MEMBER HEADING FOR EXIT Trump fires Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin in the wake of a bruising ethics scandal and a mounting rebellion within his own agency. 2. ECONOMY'S WHEELS SPIN FASTER U.S. GDP grew at a solid 2.9 percent annual rate in the final three months of last year, a sharp upward revision that caps three quarters of the fastest growth in more than a decade. 3. PRESSURE ON PRESIDENT RAMPS UP Porn actress Stormy Daniels wants Trump to answer her attorney's questions under oath about a pre-election payment aimed at keeping her quiet about their alleged tryst. 4. WHERE BIZARRE ATTACK TOOK PLACE British police say that the Russian ex-spy and his daughter left critically ill in a nerve agent attack were probably poisoned at the front door of their home in southwestern England. Advertisement 5. HELP FOR ENDANGERED WHALE ON WAY Canada is establishing a permanent speed limit in the Gulf of St. Lawrence in hopes of protecting the highly endangered North Atlantic right whale. Advertisement 6. WHAT'S RAISING PRIVACY CONCERNS Some 60 companies including such leading brands as Subway, Sprint and the NFL are joining forces to help each other follow you around online.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 7. 'A TRUE SURPRISE' Unseen mysterious dark matter is supposed to be 28 percent of the universe — but astronomers have found a strange galaxy where there is no dark matter. 8. ASSANGE LOSES INTERNET CONNECTION Ecuador's government is cutting off the WikiLeaks founder's communications outside the nation's embassy in London. 9. WHICH REBOOT OPENED BIG Viewers were eager to see ABC's reboot of "Roseanne," with an estimated 18.4 million tuning in to the show's debut. 10. PLAY BALL! The major league baseball season is getting underway. The Houston Astros will take the field as World Series champions for the first time. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By IAN BAUMANMARCH 28, 2018
 
CreditMichael Bailey-Gates         A native of Rhode Island, the photographer Michael Bailey-Gates first moved to New York after high school in order to meet and make work with the artists he had become friends with online. “The internet was my secret passage to photography as a kid,” he says, explaining that he would share his early images of his world through Flickr. “I was always making a big mess at home, taking pictures in private to put online. Photography has always felt forbidden and dangerous to me, but has brought me everything in my life.” In New York, Bailey-Gates, 24, has continued to grow his network of collaborators, which now includes the artist, model and actress India Salvor Menuez, the singer Dev Hynes and the designers Mike Eckhaus and Zoe Latta, all of whom have appeared in his provocative portraits. A recipient of the Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation Award in 2015, Bailey-Gates describes making pictures as a process that has “formed my identity, my relationships, the way I connect to the world.” In this new body of work, “Horse in the Rough,” which debuts exclusively here, Bailey-Gates references early motion-study photographs — but applies a very current perspective, without the gender norms traditional to classical portraiture. “My photography is an imprint of my accumulated beliefs,” he explains. “I’m not trying to convince you of something, because to me it’s already true.” Featuring both the photographer and his friends in and out of garments, the images depict environments teetering between the mundane and the otherworldly, embodying his wider vision of a fluid reality. “Gender isn’t real,” he says. “I want photography to support this fact. I want to challenge binary systems of thinking and overcome them.” A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page ST3 of the New York edition with the headline: View Finder; Forbidden Lens.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:59 A.M. E.D.T.
 PARIS —  France bounced back from a home defeat by Colombia to beat World Cup hosts Russia 3-1 with Paul Pogba showing his best side, but Les Bleus still do not look ready for the soccer extravaganza in less than three months. Pogba bossed the midfield, set up Kylian Mbappe's first goal and scored a beautiful free kick with his 19-year-old partner netting a double in St Petersburg. But after collapsing in the second half at the Stade de France as they squandered a two-goal lead in a 3-2 loss to Colombia last Friday, France were far from looking like world title contenders. "It's always better when we win but we feel like it was far from perfect," said midfielder Blaise Matuidi. Advertisement "We can do better - we can do much better." Didier Deschamps's side especially lacked aggressiveness in both matches and never looked safe, even against a weak Russia team. Advertisement "We need to be conquerors," Matuidi added. "We must work on this because the World Cup is coming fast and we will need to be ready.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "In tough moments, maybe we did not show enough solidarity. We left too much space to our opponents and maybe we did not make enough efforts." Captain Hugo Loris, however, is confident that France, who won their only World Cup 20 years ago, will be ready on time. "What matters is our opening game against Australia on June 16," he said. "Collectively, there is a big room for improvement. Whatever the system, what makes the difference in high-level football is the intensity you put into the games, the heart and the aggressiveness." "Against Russia, we only played well for parts of the game. We had trouble putting intensity into the match, to put rhythm into it and we let them score in the second half while we wanted to get a clean sheet," said striker Olivier Giroud. (Reporting by Julien Pretot; Editing by Christian Radnedge) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By A. O. SCOTTMARCH 28, 2018
 It isn’t going too far out on a limb to predict that “Ready Player One” will turn out to be one of Steven Spielberg’s more controversial projects. Even before its release, this adaptation of Ernest Cline’s 2011 best seller — what one writer called a  “nerdgasm” of a novel — was subjected to an unusual degree of internet pre-hate. That was only to be expected. Mr. Spielberg has tackled contentious topics before — terrorism, slavery, the Pentagon Papers, sharks — but nothing as likely to stir up a hornet’s nest of defensiveness, disdain and indignant “actually”-ing as the subject of this movie, which is video games. And not only video games. “Ready Player One,” written by Mr. Cline and Zak Penn, dives into the magma of fan zeal, male self-pity and techno-mythology in which those once-innocent pastimes are now embedded. Mr. Spielberg, a digital enthusiast and an old-school cineaste, goes further than most filmmakers in exploring the aesthetic possibilities of a form that is frequently dismissed and misunderstood. Aided by his usual cinematographer, Janusz Kaminski, and by the production designer Adam Stockhausen, he turns a vast virtual landscape of battling avatars into a bustling pop-cultural theme park, an interactive museum of late-20th- and early-21st-century entertainment, a maze of niche tastes, cultish preoccupations and blockbuster callbacks. Mr. Spielberg navigates this warehouse with his usual dexterity, loading every frame with information without losing the clarity and momentum of the story. Nonetheless, the toy guns of social media and pop-up kulturkritik are locked and loaded. Mr. Spielberg will be accused of taking games and their players too seriously and not seriously enough, of pandering and mocking, of just not getting it and not being able to see beyond it — “it” being the voracious protoplasm that has, over the past three or four decades, swallowed up most of our cultural discourse. Whatever you call it — the revenge of the nerds, the franchising of the universe, the collapse of civilization — it’s a force that is at once emancipatory and authoritarian, innocent and pathological, delightful and corrosive. A preview of the film. Mr. Spielberg and some of his friends helped to create this monster, which grants him a measure of credibility and also opens him up to a degree of suspicion. He is the only person who could have made this movie and the last person who should have been allowed near the material. Advertisement That material has issues of its own. Mr. Cline’s book — readable and amusing without being exactly good — is a hodgepodge of cleverness and cliché. Less than a decade after publication, it already feels a bit dated, partly because its dystopian vision seems unduly optimistic and partly because its vision of male geek rebellion has turned stale and sour. Advertisement In the film, set in 2045, Wade Watts (a young man played by the agreeably bland, blandly agreeable Tye Sheridan) lives in “the stacks,” a vertical pile of trailers where the poorer residents of Columbus, Ohio (Oklahoma City in the book), cling to hope, dignity and their VR gloves. Humanity has been ravaged by the usual political and ecological disasters (among them “bandwidth riots” referred to in Wade’s introductory voice-over), and most people seek refuge in a digital paradise called the Oasis. That world — less a game than a Jorge Luis Borges cosmos populated by wizards, robots and racecar drivers — is the creation of James Halliday (Mark Rylance). After Halliday’s death, his avatar revealed the existence of a series of Easter eggs, or secret digital treasures, the discovery of which would win a lucky player control of the Oasis. Wade is a “gunter” — short for “egg hunter” — determined to pursue this quest even after most of the other gamers have tired of it. Among his rivals are a few fellow believers and Nolan Sorrento (Ben Mendelsohn), the head of a company called IOI that wants to bring Halliday’s paradise under corporate control. In the real world, IOI encourages Oasis fans to run up debts that it collects by forcing them into indentured servitude. Sorrento’s villainy sets up a battle on two fronts — clashes in the Oasis mirroring chases through the streets of Columbus — that inspires Mr. Spielberg to feats of crosscutting virtuosity. The action is so swift and engaging that some possibly literal-minded questions may be brushed aside. I, for one, didn’t quite understand why, given the global reach of the Oasis, all the relevant players were so conveniently clustered in Ohio. (If anyone wants to explain, please find me on Twitter so I can mute you.) 
                Here’s a rundown of some of the bigger references you need to know before watching Steven Spielberg’s film.             But, of course, Columbus and the Oasis do not represent actual or virtual realities, but rather two different modalities of fantasy. Wade’s avatar, Parzival, collects a posse of fighters: Sho, Daito, Aech and Art3mis, who is also his love interest. When the people attached to these identities meet up in Columbus, they are not exactly as they are in the game. Aech, large and male in the Oasis, is played by Lena Waithe. But the fluidity of online identity remains an underexploited possibility. In and out of the Oasis, Art3mis (also known as Samantha, and portrayed by Olivia Cooke) is a male fantasy of female badassery. Sho (Philip Zhao) and Daito (Win Morisaki) are relegated to sidekick duty. The multiplayer, self-inventing ethos of gaming might have offered a chance for a less conventional division of heroic labor, but the writers and filmmakers lacked the imagination to take advantage of it. The most fun part of “Ready Player One” is its exuberant and generous handing out of pop-cultural goodies. Tribute is paid to Mr. Spielberg’s departed colleagues John Hughes and Stanley Kubrick. The visual and musical allusions are eclectic enough that nobody is likely to feel left out, and everybody is likely to feel a little lost from time to time. Nostalgia? Sure, but what really animates the movie is a sense of history. The Easter egg hunt takes Parzival and his crew back into Halliday’s biography — his ill-starred partnership with Ogden Morrow (Simon Pegg), his thwarted attempts at romance — and also through the evolution of video games and related pursuits. The history is instructive and also sentimental in familiar ways, positing a struggle for control between idealistic, artistic entrepreneurs (and their legions of fans) and soulless corporate greedheads.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Halliday is a sweet, shaggy nerd with a guileless Northern California drawl and a deeply awkward manner, especially around women. Sorrento is an autocratic bean counter, a would-be master of the universe who doesn’t even like video games. These characters are clichés, but they are also allegorical figures. In the movie, they represent opposing principles, but in our world, they are pretty much the same guy. A lot of the starry-eyed do-it-yourselfers tinkering in their garages and giving life to their boyish dreams back in the ’70s and ’80s turned out to be harboring superman fantasies of global domination all along. They shared their wondrous creations and played the rest of us for suckers, collecting our admiration, our attention and our data as profit and feudal tribute. Mr. Spielberg incarnates this duality as perfectly as any man alive. He is the peer of Steve Jobs and Bill Gates, and a Gandalf for the elves and hobbits who made Google, Facebook and the other components of our present-day Oasis. He has been man-child and mogul, wide-eyed artist and cold-eyed businessman, praised for making so many wonderful things and blamed for ruining everything. His career has been a splendid enactment of the cultural contradictions of capitalism, and at the same time a series of deeply personal meditations on love, loss and imagination. All of that is also true of Halliday’s Oasis. “Ready Player One” is far from a masterpiece, but as the fanboys say, it’s canon. 
Director
Steven Spielberg  
Writers
Zak Penn,                                 Ernest Cline  
Stars
Tye Sheridan,                                 Olivia Cooke,                                 Ben Mendelsohn,                                 Lena Waithe,                                 T.J. Miller  
Rating
PG-13
 
Running Time
2h 20m
 
Genres
Action,                                 Adventure,                                 Sci-Fi  Ready Player OneRated PG-13. Adolescent language. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes. A version of this review appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Nerd’s Paradise, via Spielberg.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. But our primary goal is that this feature adds value to your reading experience. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
New Sentences  By                     
 SAM ANDERSON
 
MARCH 28, 2018
 — From “Astral Weeks: A Secret History of 1968” (Penguin Press, 2018, Page 281), by Ryan H. Walsh, a culture journalist and the frontman of the Boston band Hallelujah the Hills. The ancient Greeks had two words for time: “chronos” and “kairos.” Chronos was the normal, steady, workaday flow — what we would call “clock time.” Kairos was special: key moments that managed to transcend the ceaseless drift to become opportune, defining, holy. A few thousand years of clock time later, this remains one of human life’s defining tensions: the Ping-Pong between chronos and kairos, meaning and mundanity. Our great epiphanies might feel like celestial gifts, but in reality they tend to arrive at 2:14 on gray Thursdays while plastic bags flutter in the trees and drawers we thought we had fixed suddenly scrape and stick again. Part of the job of a good historian is to return celebrated moments of kairos — the signing of the Declaration of Independence, Michael Jackson’s first moonwalk — back to the chronos from which they sprang. In a new book, Ryan H. Walsh finds a way to do this with one of the most kairos-soaked artworks of the 20th century. Van Morrison’s “Astral Weeks” sounds less a rock album than a mystical folk cloud, formless and eternal, pulsating on the edge of the Big Bang. (“If I ventured in the slipstream,” Morrison sings in the opening verse, “between the viaducts of your dream.”) But even this transcendent recording, Walsh shows, is rooted in the mundane, from the social turmoil of 1968 Boston (mystical cults, racial oppression) to the fits and whims of a diminutive alcoholic from Belfast who happened to sing with something resembling the voice of God. One of Morrison’s session musicians, the jazz guitarist Jay Berliner, came to the artsy improvisations of “Astral Weeks” directly from working on jingles for Noxzema and Pringles. And then, in the little loop of time between Morrison’s inspired recording and the album hitting stores, Richard Nixon stepped into the White House — another moment of kairos from which we are all still trying to recover. Sam Anderson is a staff writer for the magazine. Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page MM11 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: ‘While a record plant pressed “Astral Weeks” to vinyl, Richard Nixon was elected president of the United States.’.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:02 A.M. E.D.T.
 SHANGHAI/BEIJING —  The trial of the former chairman of Anbang Insurance Group Co Ltd [ANBANG.UL] Wu Xiaohui for alleged economic crimes started in Shanghai on Wednesday, a court statement said. The case comes a month after the Chinese government officially seized control of the once-high flying insurer and announced that Wu was being prosecuted, as Beijing cracks down on big-spending conglomerates and financial risk. Anbang had been one of the most aggressive investors behind a wave of overseas acquisitions by Chinese firms that have attracted the attention of global regulators and investors. The downfall of Anbang, which got its start as an auto insurer, came after the government trained its sights on acquisitive non-state firms amid a sweeping program to lower debt and financial risk in the economy. Advertisement Anbang declined to comment on the start of the trial at the Shanghai No. 1 Intermediate People's Court. Advertisement The court said parliamentarians, journalists and others, including family members of Wu, attended the hearing.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Wu, known for his hard-driving, hands-on approach and single-minded ambition, was detained in June, sources have said. After a spate of high-profile deals worth more than $30 billion, Anbang began to run into roadblocks even before Wu's detention, though, failing to close on a handful of investments and facing criticism over its opaque shareholding structure. Private conglomerates in China have recently attracted regulatory attention for their aggressive acquisitions of overseas assets. Some insurers were punished for using client money derived from high-yield investment products sold to consumers for risky investments. This has particularly jarred with authorities concerned about an economy over-reliant on credit. (Reporting by Josephine Mason, Fang Cheng and Matthew Miller in Beijing and John Ruwitch in Shanghai; Editing by Michael Perry and Jacqueline Wong) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Bournemouth boss Eddie Howe believes the revolving door policy many Premier League clubs have undertaken in search of instant success is detrimental to a club's prospects of building for the future. Howe prepares Bournemouth for Saturday's league trip to Watford, one of seven top-flight clubs to have had changed managers this season. Javi Gracia replaced Marco Silva at Vicarage Road in January, while West Bromwich Albion, Stoke City, Southampton, Swansea City, Everton and Leicester City have all chosen to appoint new managers in search of improved results. "It tells you there is a big desire to change," Howe told the Daily Echo.  "If things aren't going well, the days when people will show patience and give a manager time to turn it round have gone. There is an instant need to change and that is always seen as better. "It doesn't always work out that way... it's about next week or next month, which I don't necessarily think is good for the structure of a club in the long term. I think the best-run clubs have a plan beyond the immediate time." Having returned to Bournemouth in 2012, Howe is currently the second-longest serving manager in the top flight behind Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger, who took charge of the north London club in 1996. In his first season in charge, Howe guided the club to safety in League Two in 2008-09 and has since never failed to improve their position in the standings across two spells. "We are working as hard as we can for results every day and that is maximised to try to achieve success," he added. "I think if the people in charge of the club see that and they trust the people who are leading that, then why change?" Bouremouth are currently 10th and are just four points short of the 40-point mark, a total seen as a traditional marker for survival that would guarantee a fourth consecutive season in the top division.   (Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru) Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Howard Axelrod CHICAGO — Last Thursday night, Loyola University Chicago tipped off against Nevada at 6:07 p.m. in the Sweet Sixteen of the N.C.A.A. tournament. The weekly two-and-a-half-hour poetry workshop I teach at Loyola was scheduled to start at 7. As I crossed campus, raucous cheers rose from the student center, hundreds of yards away. Lake Michigan crashed into the rocks behind the library, frothing like victory champagne. There was no one outside. Apart from a lone rabbit, nothing moved on the quad. Two of my students had emailed earlier in the day to say they’d be absent due to March Madness. Loyola hadn’t made the N.C.A.A. tournament in 33 years. I didn’t know if a single student would show for class. As I approached our building, the roar from the student center grew louder, as did the mixed feelings I’ve had about college sports. I’ve loved basketball since I was a boy and played varsity for my high school. Most of my friends in college were athletes, not poets. But over the last two decades, college sports have become big business. In 2016, the highest-paid state employee in 39 states was a college coach — not the governor, not the state university’s president. Each year, N.C.A.A. Division I athletic departments generate billions of dollars in revenue. To keep the money pouring into their programs, and into their own pockets, coaches have to win. The student-athletes at these big-time schools become in-house professional athletes, without the paychecks, but often with plenty of valuable perks. Their training, practice and game schedules leave little time for class, let alone studying. Many don’t get diplomas, which they’ll need because the majority of them won’t play pro. Loyola, of course, is not one of those big-money schools. Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt, the team’s chaplain, was the only person involved with the team whose name I knew before the tournament began. I’d never even seen a student wear a Loyola basketball shirt on campus. When the team upset the highly ranked Florida during the regular season, my excitement was met with genial indifference. The evidence that sports fit into life at Loyola was that they were largely invisible. After class each Thursday, I’d cut through the halls by Gentile Arena, past faded black-and-white photographs of earlier teams and inspirational quotations on the walls. A few student-athletes would be returning from the training room. Just another night for them, pursuing sports, as the N.C.A.A. Core Values state, as “an avocation.” But now the basketball team was in the Sweet Sixteen on national television. Barack Obama was tweeting about Sister Jean. However briefly, Loyola athletics had entered the big time, which didn’t bode well for academics. As I crossed the campus, I saw that the only classrooms with lights on had the game playing on large screens. Eleven of 14 students, all women, showed up for class (there is only one male student in our class). We talked about the Nick Flynn poems they’d been assigned. But cheering surged from down the hall as the second half began. At the students’ urging, we watched the rest of the game together on the large screen in the classroom. During the commercial breaks, I tried to think of a way to justify the decision pedagogically (the uses and abuses of alliteration: March Madness versus Elite Eight; or maybe, why sportscasters love clichés). But as we watched, that need felt less and less urgent. One student did mention the power of juxtaposition, how at the end of the previous game the coverage cut between a beaming Sister Jean and a bawling Tennessee fan. Another student, after the game concluded with Loyola beating Nevada, said, “We should write a poem — it felt like my heart was beating outside my chest!” But after a short break, we returned to the syllabus. To my amazement, the spirit of the game, the sense of all being on the same team, carried into our discussion of a student’s poem. Comments, which usually last for about 10 minutes, went on much longer. The poem, about a student missing her native Nigeria, drew encouraging consideration from her classmates. When class ended, I figured everyone would rush off, but no one seemed in a hurry. Camaraderie had entered the room. Three students approached me — one about a poetry fellowship, another about a poem about trampolines and the Nigerian student about a poem she was writing on womanhood. As she and I left the building, the campus thrummed with celebration, cheers rising from dorm rooms and passing cars. Another student from class, who lived on the South Side and had an hour-and a-half commute ahead of her, crossed the quad with us. She said the victory felt like the Cubs’ World Series victory in miniature. We walked slowly, absorbing the night, its unlikely rhyme of poetry and basketball. I asked the student from the South Side about her commute, what route she took. The Nigerian student asked her what she did with the travel time. They talked about reading on train rides, and about the desire to observe others without being seen. They talked about making a T-shirt that said, “I’m a writer — please don’t mind if I watch you.” The basketball game had come and gone, but its energy was still carrying them. This Saturday, during the Final Four, I’ll be rooting for Loyola — for the team to win, and, more deeply, for the balanced role of sports at the university not to change. For both to happen, it’ll take a miracle. Howard Axelrod is a lecturer in creative writing at Loyola University Chicago and the author of “The Point of Vanishing: A Memoir of Two Years in Solitude.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:09 P.M. E.D.T.
 BELGRADE —  Serbia's 2-0 win over Nigeria in a World Cup warm-up on Tuesday has proved critics wrong for writing off the team's prospects in the tournament in Russia, coach Mladen Krstajic said. Krstajic and his players came under fire after a tepid 2-1 defeat by Morocco on Friday and they responded with a solid performance against the Nigerians in a match played at Barnet's stadium in north London. "The lads showed plenty of character against Nigeria and the display made it clear the critics were hasty in their remarks after the Morocco defeat," Krstajic told reporters after an Aleksandar Mitrovic double gave his team the win. "We could have won by a bigger margin but the most important thing is that we looked like a team with plenty of commitment." Advertisement Nigerian keeper Francis Uzoho made several fine saves and Mitrovic should have had another goal as television replays showed his 13th-minute header had crossed the line.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A revamped 4-2-3-1 formation, with Mitrovic the lone striker, dominated as the lively attacking midfield trio of Dusan Tadic, Adem Ljajic and Filip Kostic caused all sorts of problems for the Nigerian defence. Advertisement Mitrovic, who has rediscovered his scoring touch for club and country after joining English Championship (second division) promotion-chasing side Fulham from Newcastle United in January, was delighted with the outcome. "I scored twice and should have had another but the team is all that matters," he said. "We really wanted a result here and having won, we can't wait to gather again because we know how big a challenge doing well in Russia will be. Serbia are in the 32-nation tournament's Group E alongside Brazil, Costa Rica and Switzerland. (Writing by Zoran Milosavljevic; Editing by Keith Weir) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - BlackBerry Ltd reported a fourth-quarter profit on Wednesday that beat analysts' estimates and said it expects strong billings at its high-margin software and services business for the full year. The company, which reinvented itself after customers ditched its smartphones for Apple's iPhones and Android devices, said revenue from its enterprise software and services business rose about 19 percent to $108 million. "Our strategy is working," Chief Executive Officer John Chen said on a morning conference call. The company extended CEO Chen's contract earlier this month, and followed that up with two big deals in software security — one with Jaguar Land Rover and the other with Microsoft. BlackBerry, which had about 3,500 enterprise customer orders in the reported quarter, expects total company software and services billings to grow by double digits in 2019. "BlackBerry's subscription revenue is coming up good. If billings are going up that means their models are transitioning very well to a subscription model," Global Equities Research's Trip Chowdhry told Reuters. The company's quarterly profit beat was helped by higher margins on software and services sales. BlackBerry's gross margins rose to 76 percent of the revenue, from 60.1 percent a year earlier. Excluding items, the Waterloo, Ontario-based company earned 5 cents per share. Analysts on average had expected the company to break even, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Net loss narrowed to $10 million, or 6 cents per share, in the fourth quarter ended Feb. 28, from $47 million, or 10 cents per share, a year earlier. The company's revenue fell 18.5 percent to $233 million. BlackBerry shares were down marginally on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  (Reporting by Taenaz Shakir in Bengaluru and Jim Finkle in Toronto; Editing by Shailesh Kuber and Shounak Dasgupta) Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Big-serving American John Isner overwhelmed South Korean Chung Hyeon 6-1 6-4 to advance to the semi-finals at the Miami Open on Wednesday.  A fired up Isner yelled "Come on" and pumped his fist when he broke Chung's serve in the first set to race out to a 3-1 lead, ending Chung's streak of 27 consecutive holds of serve.  The 14th-seeded Isner cruised through the remainder of the 25 minute opening set, in which he fired seven of his 13 aces.  The hour-long contest felt all but over when Chung sent a forehand long in the second set to hand Isner a break and a 3-2 lead.  The 21-year-old was unable to find an answer to Isner's booming serve in a match where he failed to convert his only break point opportunity and was broken four times.  "I played extremely well. Every match I've played in this tournament I've gotten better," the 32-year-old Isner said in an on-court interview. "I keep getting stronger and that's a very, very good sign going forward." "I know I'm in the semi-finals and I can't wait to get back on this court." Isner added that the hot and windy conditions in Miami, where the courts are not particularly fast but where the ball bounces up high, suit his first-strike approach to the game perfectly. Next up for Isner will be either Indian Wells champion Juan Martin del Potro or Canadian Milos Raonic, who meet later on Wednesday at Crandon Park.  "I expect that match to be very close," Isner said. "Del Potro is the hottest player on tour right now, hands down, and Milos has found his game as well after having a rough time last year. He's back playing well."  (Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Toby Davis) Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By MATT APUZZOMARCH 28, 2018
 WASHINGTON — In the final months of the Obama administration, the Justice Department announced a new approach to preparing prisoners for life beyond their cells. Officials created a prison school system, pledged money for technology training and promised to help prevent former inmates from returning to prison. Almost immediately after taking office, Trump administration officials began undoing their work. Budgets were slashed, the school system was scrapped and studies were shelved as Attorney General Jeff Sessions brought to bear his tough-on-crime philosophy and deep skepticism of Obama-era crime-fighting policies. Now, nearly a year and a half later, the White House has declared that reducing recidivism and improving prisoner education is a top priority — echoing some of the very policies it helped dismantle. This whiplash approach to federal prison policy reflects the tension between Jared Kushner, the president’s reform-minded son-in-law and senior adviser, and Mr. Sessions, a hard-liner whose views on criminal justice were forged at the height of the drug war. It has left both Democratic and Republican lawmakers confused and has contributed to skepticism that the Trump administration is serious about its own proposals. Advertisement On Capitol Hill, a wholesale reconsideration of American sentencing laws and prison policies has bipartisan support. Dozens of senators have sponsored a bill to change mandatory-minimum sentences and ease drug laws that have been used to seek lengthy sentences for nonviolent offenders. The bill also includes provisions to expand education, worker training and drug rehabilitation programs in prison. Advertisement Mr. Kushner, administration officials say, supports such sweeping change. Mr. Sessions is adamantly opposed. The two men reached a compromise in recent months: Mr. Kushner could push for the prison changes, but Mr. Sessions would position the administration strongly against a broader overhaul. In a letter to Congress last month, Mr. Sessions excoriated the bill, predicting it “would reduce sentences for a highly dangerous cohort of criminals, including repeat dangerous drug traffickers and those who use firearms.” The letter enraged the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Republican chairman, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa. Twenty-five senators, split nearly evenly between the two parties, have sponsored his bill, which reform advocates in both parties regard as the best chance to undo the strict laws that contribute to the United States containing the world’s largest prison population. Mr. Sessions promised last fall that he would work with the Senate to address those laws. “We’ve never had any dialogue since,” said Mr. Grassley, one of Mr. Trump’s most important Capitol Hill allies during his first year in office. “I resent the president not helping me more, when I worked so hard to push along his judicial nominees.” Instead, the White House is backing Mr. Kushner’s push to overhaul just prisons. “We can change the way the country thinks about prison and the job of prisons in this country,” he said during an interview in the West Wing. “I think that will save a lot of lives.” The White House released seven principles it hopes to see in legislation. Some are specific, like expanding job-training programs in prison. Others are purely generic: “Effectively use government resources to reduce crime, enhance public safety and increase opportunity, thereby improving the lives of all Americans.” Mr. Kushner’s father served prison time for tax evasion, witness tampering and making illegal campaign donations. His son has convinced advocates for an overhaul, even those who are not natural allies, that he personally cares about the issue. Advertisement “I do believe that Jared Kushner is earnest in his desire for criminal justice reform,” said Inimai M. Chettiar, of the liberal-leaning Brennan Center for Justice. “But Jeff Sessions is still stuck in 1980. He hasn’t moved along with everyone else, including top prosecutors and police chiefs, who realize that tough-on-crime doesn’t work.” Ms. Chettiar said she was not convinced that Mr. Kushner’s support was enough to get the administration behind real change — even in the narrow area of prisons. The Justice Department said Mr. Sessions fully supported the White House principles and was committed to helping inmates develop the skills needed to return to society. But Mr. Sessions is not rushing to promote those efforts: Over two weeks, the Justice Department refused to make anyone available to discuss them and would not identify which prison education programs have been cut and which remain. “They’re not going to talk to you about this,” said Joe Rojas, a teacher at the federal prison complex in Coleman, Fla. He said the Justice Department could not answer those questions without acknowledging that the Trump administration had cut more than 6,000 prison jobs. Staffing is so short that teachers around the country are regularly reassigned to cover routine guard duties, he said. One of the White House priorities is to offer incentives to encourage inmates to enroll in programs to prepare them for life outside prison. Mr. Rojas and others are quick to note that incentives are not the problem: Educational programs are so popular that more than 15,000 federal inmates are on waiting lists for high school equivalency diploma and literacy programs, according to a 2016 Justice Department report. “It sounds pretty on paper,” said Mr. Rojas, who is the president of his American Federation of Government Employees union local. “But when you cut staff, you can’t do anything.” Administration officials say it is unfair to view the White House initiative through a lens of what has been cut. Mr. Kushner got involved only after those cuts were made. As for broader overhaul efforts, he has made his case to advocates that it is better to address prison problems than do nothing. Advertisement And some longtime advocates agree, even if begrudgingly. Koch Industries, for example, lobbied hard for sweeping criminal justice changes, including more lenient sentencing. But Mark Holden, the group’s general counsel, said he saw an opportunity to improve prisons — even if it was not everything advocates wanted. “This is something that pretty much everyone agrees with, so let’s start where there’s a consensus and build,” he said. Mr. Grassley said that he while appreciated Mr. Kushner’s desire to get something done, he did not support any effort to try to address prisons without fixing what he saw as fundamental unfairness in sentencing laws. And he believes Mr. Kushner shares his views. “But he sees a chance of getting half a loaf, and he’s willing to settle for a half a loaf,” Mr. Grassley said. “I’m not going to.” Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The White House argues that Mr. Grassley’s argument is moot because the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, will not allow a vote on a broad criminal justice bill that divides Republicans. Mr. Grassley sees that as an excuse. “If the president would start tweeting about it every other day like he tweets about everything else, McConnell would come along,” he said. Mr. Kushner believes that the White House can forge consensus around prison reform. He wants the federal government to look to states for proven ideas to reduce recidivism. The White House recently hired Brooke Rollins, a conservative lawyer who advocated such changes in Texas, a state that is often held up by both conservatives and liberals as a leader in reducing recidivism. Amy Lopez, a former teacher in the Texas prison system, agreed that the federal government could learn from states. More data exists than ever before, she said, and it shows that education reduces the chance that a former inmate will be arrested again. The Justice Department hired Ms. Lopez in 2016 to replace the patchwork prison education system with a centralized school district that offered diplomas, technology training and vocational education. Advertisement “It was interesting to have this focus at the federal level on education,” she said. “That was new.” Within months, she was fired, the school system axed. She took a job overseeing education in Washington’s city corrections system. Trump administration officials say that, as part of the new focus on prisons, if the school idea turns out to have been a good one, they can always reconsider it. Shaila Dewan contributed reporting from New York. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Kushner Spars With Sessions, In Whiplash on Prisons Policy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By CECILIA KANGMARCH 28, 2018
 The government doesn’t want you to pay too much to watch your shows. That’s why the Justice Department says it is challenging the proposed merger between AT&T; and Time Warner. WASHINGTON — The head of Turner Broadcasting on Wednesday pushed back against one of the central arguments of the government’s case to block the AT&T and Time Warner merger, saying that his company’s channels would not be used as a weapon against rivals if the deal went through. The Justice Department has argued that Turner, which is owned by Time Warner, owns “must-have” channels like CNN and TNT that the merged company would use as leverage in negotiations with other cable and satellite TV operators. But John Martin, the chief executive of Turner, told a federal court that his channels were not absolutely vital for a cable or satellite business. “I believe we have must-have, as do other programmers,” Mr. Martin said. “Must-have is another way of saying we have popular programming.” Much of the Justice Department’s argument in the trial, which started last week, has centered on the importance of Turner’s exclusive sports rights, which include professional and college basketball games. Mr. Martin’s testimony had been one of the most anticipated moments of the trial. Advertisement The Justice Department called on Mr. Martin as an adversarial witness in large part to present emails and memos he wrote that revealed how important Turner content is to Time Warner’s business, and how critical Turner is for cable and satellite operators. Advertisement In one memo presented Wednesday, from 2016, Mr. Martin emphasized the importance of renewing rights to the N.C.A.A. college basketball championships, known as March Madness. “March Madness plays a critical role” for Turner, Eric Welsh, a lawyer for the Justice Department, read from the email. It’s “not just important but has a critical role,” he said to Mr. Martin. Mr. Martin, who joined Time Warner in 1993, was one of the first witnesses called by the Justice Department. He has been vocal critic of the government’s lawsuit to block the merger, calling the Justice Department “clueless” last month. Mr. Martin’s testimony revealed how the trial has placed company executives, who normally put a bold face on their businesses for investors, in a tricky position. AT&T and Time Warner played down their influence. Their rivals have described their weaknesses in full detail. Mr. Martin tried to walk a thin line of presenting Turner’s sports and entertainment networks as important but not too important. The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. During cross-examination by AT&T, Mr. Martin disputed the government’s idea that the merger would give AT&T the incentive to use Turner Broadcasting as a negotiating weapon to extract higher fees from cable, satellite and online streaming providers. Cable channels, he said, need to be distributed to make money — and can’t do that if rival cable operators decide that the price is too high to carry a channel. Advertisement “Distribution is the most important variable for success for any programmer,” Mr. Martin said. He said revenue for cable television networks come from two sources: subscription revenue and advertising. “Distribution affects both of those,” he said. “It’s simple math.” The trial, which started last week, has attracted huge public interest, with the courtroom packed with company and government officials, investors, reporters and industry analysts. On Tuesday, executives from AT&T and Time Warner were in attendance. John Stankey, an AT&T executive poised to lead Time Warner if the merger is approved, has attended every day. Judge Richard Leon of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia will decide the case. He has not indicated an inclination toward any arguments. On Wednesday, in one of his few comments so far in the trial, he expressed astonishment at the $1 billion Turner pays each year for rights to broadcast National Basketball Association games. “You said billion?” he said, eyebrows raised. The Justice Department has called all the witnesses so far, and the early testimony by AT&T’s rivals has supported the Justice Department’s claim that the huge media merger would unfairly harm their businesses that depend on offering Turner’s channels. AT&T owns a nationwide satellite TV operator. Warren Schlichting, the president of SlingTV, a streaming video service owned by Dish Network, another national satellite TV company, took the stand on Monday and Tuesday. He said Turner’s “hard-core” negotiating tactics in the past had led to blackouts of its channels and a loss of subscribers. Mr. Schlichting warned that things would get worse with a merger. “With the merger, all the incentives change, and we have one of our most important licensers teaming up with our biggest adversary,” Mr. Schlichting said. “I just don’t know what incentive Time Warner would have to get a deal done.” The government’s witnesses have faced tough questioning from Daniel Petrocelli, the lead litigator for AT&T and Time Warner. To show SlingTV’s history of contract disputes and willingness to lose customers, Mr. Petrocelli presented a long list of occasions when Dish allowed channels to go dark after contract negotiations failed. Mr. Petrocelli also pointed a several public statements by Dish’s chairman, Charlie Ergen, that appeared to diminish the importance of Turner channels to Dish. The trial has moved slowly and is expected to last more than six weeks, with testimony from AT&T’s Randall Stephenson and Time Warner’s chief, Jeff Bewkes. Among the most important witnesses may be Carl Shapiro, an antitrust economist for the Justice Department who is not expected in coming days. Mr. Shapiro has projected that the merger would lead to a 45-cent monthly price increases for cable and satellite customers. Advertisement Mr. Petrocelli has previewed a plan to attack Mr. Shapiro’s analysis, which he has said is flawed and cherry-picks data. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JOHN ELIGONMARCH 28, 2018
 I have spent plenty of time over the past few years talking with Black Lives Matter activists about their work. The conversations are usually about things like systems and policies, strategies for winning change and the path forward. In these moments, just as when we see them taking to the streets in protest, activists come off as strong and resolute, unflappable and resilient. But there is a quieter reality of activism: the mental and emotional hardship of the work, and the resulting stress and depression that sometimes make it difficult to even get out of bed. Though this is not often talked about in the open, it is evident to anyone paying close attention. Over the past two years at least five prominent activists have died. Two of them were suicides. One was from a heart attack at age 27. The other two were homicides, which speaks to the pressures of activism, too — the work they do often antagonizes the police, and so many are wary of turning to the state for protection. We decided to explore this topic after Muhiyidin Moye, an activist in Charleston, was fatally shot in New Orleans last month. What led activists to die young and how were those deaths affecting people in the movement? Advertisement I knew right away that reporting out this story would be challenging. Activists are often wary of sharing with mainstream news outlets, feeling that they have been burned in the past and their messages have been twisted. One activist even expressed concern that my article would sow divisions within the movement. And talking about mental health is not easy or comfortable for many people to begin with. Advertisement One of the first people to whom I reached out was Ashley Yates. I had developed a relationship with her since her days as an activist in Ferguson, Mo., after the police killing of Michael Brown. Ms. Yates didn’t hold back with me: She has already been open on social media about her struggles within the movement and had a very public falling out with its leaders. Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ms. Yates had also written about how she was affected by the hospitalization of Erica Garner, the 27-year-old daughter of Eric Garner. Ms. Garner had  a heart attack last year and later died; while she was in a coma, Ms. Yates shared an image on Instagram of a text message exchange in which Ms. Yates encouraged Ms. Garner to not be bothered by people talking negatively about her on social media. “I have to make clear just how invisible some of the most heinous violence we experience is,” Ms. Yates wrote in the Instagram post in December. “How we are often left alone on the front lines grown cold because media and figureheads move on to the next hot story.” I asked Ms. Yates, who moved to Oakland a couple of years back to work as an activist full time, if she ever had the urge to just say forget it, and take her college degree and go into a traditional profession. Of course she did, she told me, especially when you see someone dropping dead at 27 of a heart attack. “It’s absolutely scary,” said Ms. Yates, 32. “It’s enough to make you want to quit.” But more than just reflecting on the difficulties of activism and the trauma that comes with it, Ms. Yates ventured into another area that I had not thought about: self-care. As it turns out, taking care of yourself is a big issue in the present movement, unlike in times past. There are trained “healers” in communities who run workshops and do private counseling for activists. Ms. Yates started seeing a therapist about a year ago. She also talked about the things that seem small but can make a big difference for her: going to the ocean, putting her toes in sand, remembering to eat, taking time to talk with her friends about things that have nothing to do with activism. Some of these might seem obvious, but for those immersed in the work, that’s not always the case. As one reader commented on the story, young activists should temper their expectations for immediate results “and put their personal health first in order to reduce their toxic levels of stress.” Because, he added, “stress can kill; emotionally and spiritually, as well as physically.” A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: Black Stress Matters.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By DAVID WALDSTEINMARCH 27, 2018
 KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Danielle Collins was 6 years old when Venus Williams won Wimbledon for the first time, in 2000. Collins was just beginning to play tennis at the time, and for most of the next two decades Venus and her sister Serena Williams would provide inspiration for Collins, who is now one of the fastest-rising young Americans on the women’s tennis tour. On Wednesday, in her home state, Collins will play the biggest professional match of her career, squaring off against Venus Williams in the quarterfinals of the Miami Open. It is yet another big step in an impressive year for Collins, who also won a tournament in Newport Beach, Calif., in January and reached the round of 16 at the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif. Now she will face a woman she imitated as a young girl, smashing tennis balls against a backboard and begging adults to play with her on the public courts of St. Petersburg, Fla. But don’t expect Collins, 24, to be in awe of the player across the net. Brimming with confidence and stiffened by the experience of playing at, and graduating from, the University of Virginia, Collins, a two-time N.C.A.A. singles champion, is unsurprised by her recent emergence. Advertisement “This is my time,” she declared shortly after defeating Monica Puig in the round of 16 Monday night. Advertisement Playing in front of a boisterous crowd that overwhelmingly favored Puig, a Miami resident, Collins relied on her power and savvy to come back from a set down. Entering this tournament, Collins’s ranking had risen to No. 93 from No. 160 at the beginning of the year. Based on her performance here, she is set to soar past several fellow Americans (perhaps as many as six) when the new rankings come out next week. Collins had to win two qualifying matches in Miami just to get into the main singles draw, where she beat Irina-Camelia Begu, No. 16 seed CoCo Vandeweghe, Donna Vekic and Puig to reach the quarterfinals. The last three matches went three sets, and Collins overwhelmed her opponents in those final sets (6-1 against Vandeweghe, 6-1 against Vekic and 6-2 against Puig). Collins said she inherited her drive and work ethic from her father, Walter Collins, a landscaper who, his daughter said with obvious admiration, still mows lawns every day at age 80. Her mother, Cathy is a preschool teacher. Neither of them went to college, and Collins said their backgrounds made her even more determined to attend and finish college. “My dad is the most hard-working person I know and both of my parents, nothing was ever handed to them,” she said. “Their opportunity growing up was different from my opportunity, and I’m grateful that they did everything they could for me.” Collins’ father liked to play tennis, but he was by no means a professional coach. Her parents had little background in the costly, high-pressured world of tennis development, let alone access to the elite academies and junior circuits that funnel so many top players into the highest professional ranks.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But after seeing the Williams sisters, Collins knew she, too, could make it from public courts to the pros. As a child, she was a fixture at the local courts in St. Petersburg, whacking balls off the backboard and hanging around looking for a game. Eventually some “old people,” as she described them, asked her to join their league and they taught her how to play doubles. Between ages 8 and 12, she designed her own high-performance development program — she would approach grown-ups, middle-aged men and women, at the courts and ask them to hit with her, and they usually did, she said. By the time she was 12, she could beat even the best of them. Advertisement “It taught me to be really savvy and resourceful,” she said, “to be like a little adult.” Her parents took her to a few camps, and some coaches helped out. Eventually Collins attracted the attention of major universities. She chose Virginia, for a combination of the athletics and academics. Collins won the N.C.A.A. singles championship in 2014 but turned down the opportunity to turn professional because her greatest victory, she felt, would be to graduate. She did, in 2016 with a degree in media studies, and she also won her second N.C.A.A. singles title that year. As much as she learned on the court in college, Collins believes that it was her hard work in the classroom, and the degree in her back pocket, that gives her an edge in matches today. Owning a degree from a top university, she said, provides her with a sense of calm in critical moments of big matches, melting away some of the pressure that her opponent may feel more. “It gives you peace of mind knowing this isn’t do or die,” she said. “If tennis doesn’t work out, if I get injured, I’m going to be O.K. I’m going to be able to get a job, and I’m going to be able to get a good job. I went to a good university and I worked hard. I can go out on the court with a much different perspective maybe than people who didn’t go to college, and I really try to utilize that to the fullest.” A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page B9 of the New York edition with the headline: The Public Courts’ Latest Rising Star.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 12:21 A.M. E.D.T.
 KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. —  Danielle Collins' favorite player, for as long as she can remember, has been Venus Williams. Clearly, she wasn't star-struck when facing her idol. Collins got the biggest win of her pro career Wednesday night, shocking the eighth-seeded Williams 6-2, 6-3 in the Miami Open quarterfinals. Collins needed to survive two qualifying matches before making the main draw at Key Biscayne, and will now meet sixth-seeded Jelena Ostapenko in Thursday's semifinals. "The first time I saw Venus in the locker room, I nearly cried," Collins said. "I mean, I've idolized her my whole life. She's been my favorite player for forever. This is such a special moment, I'm just trying to wrap my head around it." Collins topped U.S. Open finalist Madison Keys earlier this month at Indian Wells and made a much bigger statement with this win. She threw both fists into the air when Williams couldn't handle a serve on Collins' second match point, and even the three-time champion at Key Biscayne gave her a big smile when they shook hands at the net. Advertisement "I'm just starting to finally put all of the pieces together," said Collins, the 2014 and 2016 NCAA champion at Virginia. Advertisement Collins, No. 93 in the world for a few more days, will more than double her career earnings when the money from Miami arrives. She came to Key Biscayne with $305,385 in career earnings, which she'll add at least $327,965 to now that she's in the semifinals. And she's going to soar in the world rankings, to no lower than 67th. No qualifier has ever gone this deep at Key Biscayne, though Collins looked perfectly comfortable on the stage. She rarely faced trouble, offered confident fist pumps for much of the night and set the tone by breaking Williams — one of her idols, someone who's been playing pro matches for about as long as the 24-year-old Collins has been alive — with her opening chance in each set. And now Collins, who took the more-unusual path through college to pro life, still has a shot at becoming perhaps Miami's most surprising champion.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "You don't have to do it the traditional way," Williams said. For as easy as Collins made it look Wednesday night, John Isner had an even easier time in his quarterfinal. The big-serving Isner made the Miami semifinals for the second time in four years, needing just over an hour to overpower South Korea's Hyeon Chung 6-1, 6-4. The 14th-seeded Isner finished with 13 aces, won all but one of his 32 first-serve points and avenged a loss to the 19th-seeded Chung at Auckland in his first match of the year back in January. "I played extremely well," said Isner, who dropped six of his first eight matches of 2018 before arriving in Miami. "Every match I've played in this tournament, I've gotten better. I've gotten stronger and that's a very, very good sign." Isner was broken twice by Chung when they met in Auckland. He faced only one break point on Wednesday. "It's perfect conditions," said Isner, who lost to Novak Djokovic in the 2015 semifinals at Key Biscayne. "I've played well here in the past and I'm so happy that I'm playing well here again." He'll hope that trend continues in the semifinals. Isner — who ousted second-seeded Marin Cilic earlier this week — will next face No. 5 seed Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina, who rallied to beat No. 20 Milos Raonic of Canada 5-7, 7-6 (1), 7-6 (3) in the late match Wednesday in a slugfest that lasted nearly three hours. Advertisement Ostapenko got her spot in the semifinals by ousting fourth-seeded Elina Svitolina 7-6 (3), 7-6 (5) and now will get the upstart Collins with a berth in Saturday's final at stake. The other women's semifinal is Thursday afternoon, with No. 13 Sloane Stephens set to meet three-time Miami champion Victoria Azarenka. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 BEIRUT/AMMAN —  The Syrian army is preparing to launch a "huge" operation against the last rebel-held town in eastern Ghouta unless the Jaish al-Islam insurgent group agrees to hand over the area, a pro-Syrian government newspaper reported on Wednesday. The group has been negotiating about the town of Douma with the government's main ally Russia. But a commander in the regional alliance fighting in support of President Bashar al-Assad said late on Wednesday that the talks had stopped. "The negotiations stopped. Most of the militants have set out big conditions, and the Russians and the Syrians have refused them," the commander said. A war monitor, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said the Syrian military had resumed artillery bombardment of Douma, where blasts were heard. Advertisement Routed by the Russian-backed Syrian army, rebels in other parts of eastern Ghouta are leaving in convoys to insurgent-held areas in the northwest under withdrawal deals that are restoring Assad's control. Advertisement Douma's fall would seal the rebels' heaviest defeat since 2016, driving them from their last big stronghold near the capital, and would also carry potent symbolism. The town was the main centre of street protests in the Damascus suburbs against Assad's rule that ignited the conflict seven years ago. Backed by Russia and Iran, the government has repeatedly forced rebels to surrender areas and withdraw to Idlib, where the United Nations describes the conditions faced by hundreds of thousands of displaced opposition supporters as "catastrophic". The Jaish al-Islam group says it is determined to stay in Douma, where tens of thousands of civilians are surrounded by government forces. The government says it will crush any rebels who do not agree to leave or to live under state rule. "The forces deployed in Ghouta are preparing a huge military operation in Douma if the Jaish al-Islam terrorists do not agree to hand over the city and depart," al-Watan newspaper said. "TWO DAYS WILL BE DECISIVE" A Syrian official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the situation was in a critical phase: "These two days will be decisive," the official told Reuters, without giving further details. The area had been quieter in recent days as Jaish al-Islam had negotiated with Russian forces. The rebel group said on Tuesday that Russia had yet to give an answer to its proposals. It accused Damascus and Moscow of seeking to impose demographic change by forcing residents to leave.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A witness in Douma reached by telephone said dozens of residents took to the streets of the city on Wednesday calling on rebels and opposition-led authorities negotiating with the Russians to reveal more information about the talks. Although Jaish al-Islam denies planning to leave, two rebel sources said the fighters are weighing options including leaving for rebel-held areas further northeast in Qalamoun, or in southern Syria, despite some opposition by rival rebels there. Advertisement The Syrian military backed by Russian firepower has overrun most of eastern Ghouta in an operation that began on Feb. 18. More than 1,600 people have been killed in some of the fiercest bombing of the war, and thousands more have been injured, according to rescuers and a war monitor. The eastern Ghouta area had nearly two million people before the conflict, and was a major industrial and commercial hub before the war, with rural zones that provided residents of the capital with their main source of fresh produce and dairy. U.N. officials said they were continuing their efforts to get another convoy of aid into the besieged city, where estimates of the number of people who remain have shrunk to around 70,000 from more than 100,000 as a steady stream of civilians began to leave in recent days. "It's a fluid situation. We are planning a convoy ... the minute we have all the approvals and guarantees of going in and out we will do the convoy," Ali al-Zatari, the U.N. Humanitarian coordinator in Syria, told a news conference in Damascus. State media said more than 125,000 people had left rebel-held areas since the start of the offensive. Rebels and their families who are being evacuated to other opposition areas were mainly leaving from a pocket encompassing the towns of Arbin, Ain Tarma and Zamalka that was controlled by Failaq al-Rahman, the other main rebel group in eastern Ghouta. (Reporting by Tom Perry/Suleiman al-Khalidi/Ellen Francis, and Kinda Makieh in Damascus; Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky, Peter Graff and David Stamp) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:27 A.M. E.D.T.
 NASHVILLE, Tenn. —  The checklist for the Nashville Predators is getting shorter as the regular season winds down. Kyle Turris scored the only goal in the shootout to lift the Predators over the Minnesota Wild 2-1 Tuesday night to snap a three-game skid. The win clinched the defending Western Conference champions home-ice advantage for the first round of the playoffs. The franchise's first Central Division title also is in reach, with Nashville leading Winnipeg by five points for both the top seed in the West and in the division with six games remaining apiece. Nashville wrapped up its division schedule by going 18-5-3. "We took another step closer tonight to achieving that goal and keep on getting wins, and finish as high as we can," Predators forward Scott Hartnell said. "It's just been great efforts the whole year long, and especially tonight a big effort by everybody." Advertisement Nashville also moved three points ahead of Tampa Bay in the chase for the Presidents' Trophy and home-ice advantage throughout the playoffs. The Predators visit Tampa Bay on Sunday. Advertisement Roman Josi scored for Nashville, and Pekka Rinne made 22 saves. Rinne turned away Nino Niederreiter in the shootout. Zach Parise's attempt went wide left, and Rinne stopped Mikko Koivu to clinch it. "I thought it was our best game for a while now," Josi said. "I thought we played really well. I thought we played really well defensively, they didn't have too many chances, and (Rinne) was there for us whenever they did have a chance. I thought it was a complete effort from us, and it's good to be back in the win column." Eric Staal tied it for Minnesota with 3:15 left on his 40th goal this season. Devan Dubnyk made 28 saves as Minnesota snapped a five-game point streak. The Wild still won the season series against Nashville, 3-2. "It was a great point," said Wild coach Bruce Boudreau with Minnesota third in the Central and three points ahead of St. Louis. "That's, right now, they are the best team in the league, and we played them inch for inch." The Predators thought they had scored 40 seconds into overtime on a slap shot by Ryan Ellis. Minnesota challenged for offside, and the goal was overturned on review because Turris' right skate was a few inches ahead of the puck past the blue line. "I was right on the line on the bench and I figured it might be offside, but great job of still getting it done after," Josi said of the erased goal.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Rinne stopped Staal twice in overtime, and Mikael Granlund hit the far post with 1:07 left. Turris shot first for Nashville in the shootout, and he skated up before going across the slot and beating Dubnyk stick-side . Nashville returned home for three games mired in a skid that matched its longest this season. Playing in front of the 99th consecutive sold-out crowd didn't hurt as the Predators improved to 26-8-4 in the place known as Smashville. Advertisement The Predators came out throwing pucks at Dubnyk, and Josi put Nashville up 1-0 with a slap shot from the point off the faceoff that went under Dubnyk's glove 2:51 into the game. Jordan Greenway made his NHL debut after finishing his college career at Boston University and signing a three-year entry level deal with Minnesota. Greenway was welcomed by a big check from Hartnell midway through the first period. "This is a tough game ... for a young man's career, but I thought he handled it well," Boudreau said of Greenway. Nashville missed plenty of chances to pad its lead, going scoreless on four man advantages through the first two periods. Staal tied it by beating Rinne's left skate inside the post. NOTES: Staal joined Gordie Howe as the only players to go at least nine years between 40-goal seasons, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. Howe went 12 seasons between his 44 goals in 1956-57 and 44 goals in 1968-69. Staal scored 40 in 2008-09, and this is his third 40-goal season. ... Nashville won its most divisional games since also winning 18 in 2007-08. ... Turris now has six goals on 13 shots in the shootout this season. UP NEXT Wild: Host Dallas on Thursday night. Predators: Host Sharks on Thursday night. ___ More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:36 A.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Volkswagen AG unveiled a prototype pickup truck at the New York auto show on Wednesday, a vehicle that would fill a gap in the German company's U.S. product lineup in what is one of the most profitable segments of the American market. The German automaker said the dual-cab, short-bed concept Volkswagen Atlas Tanoak pickup truck could be built off the same platform at its Chattanooga, Tennessee assembly plant, where it  builds the Atlas SUV and Passat car. Volkswagen said it does not currently have production plans for a U.S. pickup but "is keen to gauge the reactions of buyers and media, since pickup trucks are one of the biggest volume segments in the U.S." The vehicle could compete with pickups like the Honda Ridgeline, executives said. “We want to be a relevant player in this market. We want to definitely be a full-line automaker,” said Hinrich Woebcken, chief executive of the North American region for the VW, told reporters Tuesday in New York. “We want to be more American.” Advertisement Pickups accounted for about 16 percent of U.S. auto sales in 2017 and the best-selling vehicle is Ford Motor Co's F-Series pickup trucks. Advertisement VW sells the Amarok pickup truck in Europe and other markets but not in the United States, where it faces a 25 percent import tariff. VW last sold a pickup truck in the United States in the mid-1980s. The Tanoak, named after a species of tree that is native to the United States' Pacific Coast, is 214.1 inches long, some 15.8 inches longer than the Atlas, which makes it a large midsize pickup by U.S. standards.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Last week, VW announced it plans to invest $340 million to build a new sport utility vehicle in its Tennessee plant as demand surges for larger vehicles. The vehicle will be a five-passenger SUV that will be branded as part of the company’s Atlas family and go on sale next year. A concept version called the Atlas Cross Sport Concept was unveiled Tuesday night ahead of the auto show. The investment announcement is positive news for the U.S. car industry at a time when it is bracing for the impact of higher steel and aluminum tariffs. VW said in February that 54 percent of its total own-brand volume sales were SUVs - a big shift for a company that for years largely emphasized cars in the United States. In addition to a seven-passenger Atlas, which went on sale last year, VW unveiled an all-new 2018 Tiguan SUV last year. (Reporting by David Shepardson; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Reaction after Cricket Australia (CA) banned sacked captain Steve Smith and vice-captain David Warner for 12 months and opening batsman Cameron Bancroft for nine months for their roles in the ball-tampering scandal in Cape Town. MICHAEL VAUGHAN, former England captain "Steve Smith I think is a good guy who made a huge mistake. He needed punishing but I think this is too harsh. Bancroft who I don't know was led astray but deserved punishing but again too harshly IMO (in my opinion). The other guy I really don't care about." TOM MOODY, former Australia all-rounder "What happened in South Africa is incredibly sad on so many levels but what appears clear in my view is the punishment certainly doesn't fit the crime." HARSHA BHOGLE, cricket commentator "I honestly do not believe any other country would have handed its captain and lead player a 12 month ban for attempted ball-tampering." SHANE WARNE, former Australia spinner "We are all so hurt and angry and maybe we weren't so sure how to react. We'd just never seen it before. But the jump to hysteria is something that has elevated the offence beyond what they actually did, and maybe we're at a point where the punishment just might not fit the crime." JOHN HOLDER, former test match umpire "The problem with cricket is this perception that cricket is a gentleman's game. Cricket is not a gentleman's game... as you get more and more money in cricket the pressure to win big money increases. Cricket now is about winning and players will cheat... do whatever they can get away with." SANJAY MANJREKAR, former India batsman "As expected, CA have been very strict in their punishment to the offending players. The major take away from this is how critical your track record is." MOHAMMAD KAIF, former India batsman  "So with the one year ban on Smith and Warner and also a two year captaincy ban on both, think India will be favourites when they tour Australia later this year. Wonder, who will captain Australia at the World Cup. Aaron Finch?"  (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; Editing by Christian Radnedge) Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement Supported by By Reuters LONDON — Like the towers now dominating its skyline, London property prices have moved in almost only one direction in recent decades, ever higher. But uncertainty surrounding Britain's impending European Union exit and fears of an exodus of thousands of financial sector jobs, have cast a shadow over commercial property. Reuters has created a Brexit tracker that monitors six indicators to help assess the economic fortunes of "the City" as Brexit talks progress. In the second edition of the tracker, almost a year before Britain is due to leave the EU, the tracker suggests London's financial districts have been held back in some respects, but there is no evidence of a mass exodus of jobs or business. One of the indicators - commercial property prices in the City of London - are now at the highest level since after the Brexit vote in the third quarter of 2016, driven by a surge in office purchasing and leasing in the final quarter of last year.  The price of renting real estate in the City of London district rose 9.5 percent in the last three months of 2017, climbing to 78 pounds ($107) per square foot, from 71.21 pounds in the third quarter of 2017, Savills says. Mat Oakley, head of European commercial research at Savills, says that deals were now taking longer to sign and investors were seeking clarity over Britain's future status. Q: Talking specifically about the City of London, how is the commercial property market looking at the moment? A: I think as we said last time, it was definitely surprising on the upside in 2017, and actually the total volume of office space leased in the City was about 26 percent up last year on the year before, which is definitely not what we were expecting at the beginning of the year. Q: Since we last spoke to you have there been any changes, anything of interest in the sector? A: 2018 started relatively quietly actually. There’s definitely a sense that deals are taking a little longer to sign at the moment than perhaps they were 12 months ago, but there’s around three million square feet of office space currently under offer in the City of London by tenants, and that’s pretty much the normal level for this time of year, maybe even slightly above. Q: What are your concerns about Brexit and how it could impact the sector? A: In terms of the shock of Brexit, I think it’s very difficult to tell when it’s actually going to land, and I think there will be different effects on different parts of the market. Investor confidence could be hit if we get the wrong result or no result in 2019, but I think occupational confidence in terms of big businesses’ positions in London is probably a longer term risk. We don’t see the weight of concern about Brexit perhaps falling until after 2021-2022 when businesses have been able to see what impact its had on their businesses. Q: Do you think some people are holding out to see how (Brexit) negotiations go? If negotiations go well do you think you might see a big boost in business? A: There are an awful lot of perhaps more opportunistic investors possibly quietly hoping for a bad deal that might cause prices to slip in their favor. I think it's relatively unlikely at this stage, but certainly there are people looking at both the upside and downside as an opportunity for them as an investor in the UK. Q: What Brexit issues most need to be resolved for your sector to feel secure? A: I think the most important issue that we need to resolve is actually just one of certainty. At the moment we don’t really know when the biggest moment of risk is going to occur, we don’t know where it’s going to occur and we don’t know what industries it is going to effect, and I think everyone is operating in this relative vacuum.  So there’s an awful lot of speculation, there’s an awful lot of contingency plans being written, but nobody really wants to make dramatic decisions, either pro-London or anti-London, until we see a little bit more clarity. So, I think clarity is what everyone is looking for at the moment.   (Reporting by Ciara Lee; Writing by Mark Hanrahan; Editing by Alexander Smith) Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 11:15 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEWARK, N.J. —  Getting to the playoffs many times involves getting big plays from guys on the third and fourth lines in addition to having your stars step up. The Devils got both in moving a little closer to their first playoff berth since the 2011-12 season. Stefan Noesen scored on a rebound with 1:33 to play and the Devils got two goals in the final nine minutes to post a 4-3 victory over the Carolina Hurricanes on Tuesday night. "I was jumping on the bench," said Devils catalyst Taylor Hall, who had three assists. "Sometimes you need to make a play, need to have a performance and guy come through and really get that one for us. You don't want to get to overtime and split the odds." Noesen, whose 12 goals and 25 points are career highs, was in the right spot at the right time in helping the Devils win their third straight and sixth of eight. Advertisement Andy Greene's shot from the left boards was stopped by Scott Darling, but the rebound came to Noesen who fired it into the net. Advertisement "Puck goes out to Greeny and comes right on my stick and those are nice, especially with a minute and a half left," Noesen said. "That's a big win, as of now it's the biggest win of the year. Every win now from this point forward will be the biggest." The Devils (88 points) are three points ahead of idle Florida in the race for the second wild-card spot in the Eastern Conference. The Panthers have two games in hand. "It wasn't our greatest game, execution wise, defensive wise, but this time of the year you have to try and find a way to do whatever it takes," said Kyle Palmieri, who had two goals and an assist. Pavel Zacha also scored and Keith Kinkaid, who has supplanted Cory Schneider as the No. 1 goaltender, made 31 saves. Phil Di Giuseppe, Warren Foegele and Noah Hanifin also scored as the Hurricanes had a three-game winning streak snapped despite taking a 3-2 lead early in the third period. Scott Darling was outstanding making 41 saves, but Carolina's slim playoff hopes faded as it fell nine points behind New Jersey. "No matter what, you want to win," Di Giuseppe said. "That's our focus. We are just trying to win for each other. Obviously disappointing tonight, but there are a few more games." Palmieri tied the game twice with power-play goals, with both being setup by great passes by Hall. The second tied the game 3-all with 8:55 left in regulation as a penalty against Valentin Zykov about to expire. Hall sent a pass between the circles and Palmieri deflected it with an open blade into the top of the net. Advertisement Hanifin had given the Hurricanes at 3-2 lead 3:39 into the  period with a shot from the left circle into a relatively open net after Jeff Skinner won the puck behind the net.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Kinkaid was the difference in the second period when he stopped breakaways by Skinner and Brock McGinn with the Hurricanes leading 2-1. "Keith stood on his head and gave us a chance tonight and special teams came through when it mattered," Palmieri said. The save on Skinner in the opening minute of the period was spectacular. The 23-goal scorer made a move to his forehand to get Kinkaid out of position but the goalie reached back at the last second and just the butt of his stick kept the puck out of the net. Hall then made a great cross-ice pass to find Palmieri low in the right circle for a quick power-play shot that beat Darling to tie the game 2-all with 5:53 left in the period. New Jersey dominated the opening 10 minutes and took the early lead when Zacha put the rebound of a Palmieri shot into an open net at 5:47. Darling kept the Hurricanes in the game, stopping a short-handed breakaway by Blake Coleman at 12:01. Di Giuseppe tied the game a couple of minutes late with a shot from the left circle after Skinner won a battle along the boards. Elias Lindholm found Di Giuseppe. Foegele, who scored in his NHL debut on Monday, got his second in two games with a wraparound goal at with 3:07 left in the period. Advertisement NOTES: Hurricanes hope to get D Justin Falk back before the season ends. He has missed the last three games with an  upper-body injury. ... Devils F Miles Wood returned to the lineup after missing three games with a similar injury. ... Hall now has 52 assists, one shy of his career high with Edmonton in 2013-14. ... Palmieri has three goals in the last two games. ... Di Giuseppe has three goals in four games after scoring two in his first 40. ...Hurricanes F Sebastian Aho snapped a nine-game point-scoring streak (4 goals, 8 assists). UP NEXT Hurricanes: At Washington on Friday night Devils: Host Pittsburgh on Thursday night in third straight home game. __ More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 11:15 A.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Higher energy prices and borrowing costs make it more expensive than last year for Bill Savickas to operate his wholesale produce business — especially since it's hard to pass the increases on to his customers. "No one wants to be the first in the industry to raise rates and then look like the bad guy," says Savickas, the owner of Tampa, Florida-based Yankee Produce Co. While inflation overall has been tame the past few years, economists including those on the Federal Reserve Board forecast an acceleration in price increases this year. That's going to put more pressure on small businesses that don't have the big revenue cushions that larger companies do to help absorb costs. Smaller businesses also don't have the negotiating power to get better prices from vendors. And many have already been contending with rising costs, particularly for labor and energy. Yankee Produce uses big trucks to haul and deliver the fruit, vegetables and other food it sells. But nationwide diesel prices are up an average of nearly 30 cents a gallon from a year ago, which makes filling up an average tractor-trailer nearly $100 more expensive than it was in early 2017. The difference comes out of profit. Advertisement "I'm taking home significantly less money on the same amount of sales as I had a year ago," Savickas says. Advertisement He's also facing higher borrowing costs. The interest on his business line of credit was in the 6 percent range when the Fed was keeping rates stable, but now it's between 7 percent and 7.5 percent. And after an increase last week, many economists expect the Fed to raise interest rates two more times this year. "It's changing by thousands," Savickas says of his interest expenses. "That only comes from one place, my paycheck." Wholesale prices, those paid by companies, were up 2.8 percent in February compared to a year earlier, according to the Labor Department's Producer Price Index, while consumer prices as measured by the Consumer Price Index were up 2.2 percent. The faster growth in wholesale prices is a sign companies generally haven't been passing on costs, including rising labor costs, says Gus Faucher, chief economist with PNC Financial Services Group. Wages and salaries are rising because of the tight labor market that forces employers to increase pay to attract and retain good workers. Minimum wage increases are also a factor; minimums are up in 18 states this year. Avital Ungar's company, Avital Tours, runs excursions in San Francisco and Los Angeles that take people on progressive dinners — each course is served at a different restaurant. When labor costs go up at the restaurants, Ungar's costs rise. The minimum wage in San Francisco will go to $15 on July 1, while the minimum in Los Angeles will rise to $13.25 for large companies and $12 for small ones. Higher food prices also get passed along to Ungar. "As a result, we are raising prices to be able to stay in business and continue to grow our business," she says. Ungar is helped by the fact that her customers are willing to splurge on a fine dining experience, like tabs that come to $100 with wine and other alcoholic beverages. Still, she worries that ongoing price increases will hurt her business.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Overall inflation is a problem too. "We've also seen an increase in living costs in the San Francisco Bay Area that significantly impact our ability to hire great employees who can afford to live here," Ungar says. Advertisement While many owners have been reluctant to raise prices for fear of alienating customers, they'll be forced to do so to stay profitable, says Scott Anderson, chief economist of the Bank of the West. "Inflation is a pressure that could hold back profitability for some small businesses that aren't able to pass along the price increases," Anderson says. But, "more and more we are going to see small businesses having to pass along those higher costs." Trade issues, including the tariffs the Trump administration plans to impose on some steel and aluminum imports, could also hurt small businesses, Anderson says. Another factor is the dollar's recent weakness against other currencies, which makes imports more expensive. Alex Naoum sees frequent increases in the costs for hair care products and other supplies at his beauty school and two hair salons in Greenville, North Carolina, as well as annual rent increases. But he knows if he alienates customers, there are plenty of other salons they can go to. "Our customers want consistency — they just want to come in, know what they're going to pay every time. When we look at raising prices, it's not something we feel we can do yearly because it puts a strain on the relationship," Naoum says. He last raised his prices two years ago, and is thinking now that he may need to again next year. Naoum, like many business owners, is aware as he goes that costs are going up, but it's often not until he looks at his year-end records that he sees how big a toll inflation has taken on his profits. "You realize, you're at the same sales level and you're making a lot less money," he says. At 5050 Skatepark on New York's Staten Island, owners Ed Pollio and Angelica Poplano avoided raising prices for the past few years by selling hoodies, sweatshirts with the 5050 Skatepark logo, plus drinks and snacks. But rent has doubled, and utilities and insurance are up as well. It now costs $14 to skate or bike for three hours, up from $12. Pollio was nervous that would lead to a drop in customer visits, given that families could spend a considerable amount to bring their kids and their friends for an afternoon of skating. "When we raise the price for our customers, well, they're all strapped too," he says. So far, the numbers are holding up. Advertisement _____ Follow Joyce Rosenberg at www.twitter.com/JoyceMRosenberg . Her work can be found here: https://apnews.com/search/joyce%20rosenberg . We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:17 P.M. E.D.T.
 MADRID —  When Spain trudged off the pitch after losing 2-0 to Italy in the last 16 at the European Championship two years ago there was a pressing need to refresh the squad for a new start. For too long coach Vicente del Bosque had kept faith with the players he steered to glory at the 2010 World Cup and Euro 2012. There was a sense that he was picking the team based on reputation and loyalty, rather than fitness and form. The decision to replace goalkeeper Iker Casillas with David de Gea was taken far too late, midfielder Cesc Fabregas remained a key man, there was no clear pathway for players from the all-conquering age-group sides and Isco had not even made the squad. Fast forward to the eve of this year’s World Cup and things could not be more different. New coach Julen Lopetegui, who took over after Euro 2016, has overseen a changing of the guard. Advertisement The former Spain under-21 boss has built the senior side around players he previously worked with and, his team having thrashed Argentina 6-1 in a friendly on Tuesday, they are once again among the favourites to become world champions. Advertisement A lot of that optimism is down to 51-year-old Lopetegui, who has made it a policy to pick on form, rather than name. His selection of Valencia's Rodrigo Moreno, the scorer in Friday's 1-1 draw with Germany, and Iago Aspas of Celta Vigo, who netted the sixth against Argentina, is testament to that. The easy decision would have been to call up Chelsea striker Alvaro Morata, a big name player at a Champions League club, but Lopetegui has remained faithful to his principles.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Perhaps the biggest achievement in his tenure so far is making Real Madrid midfielder Isco central to everything. In from the cold, Spain’s hat-trick hero against Argentina is the country’s second top scorer under the coach’s reign and will be pivotal to their hopes in Russia. “He shows his confidence in me with the number of minutes and games he gives me,” Isco said of Lopetegui. It is a far cry from the Isco who has cut a frustrated figure at his club under coach Zinedine Zidane. A key player at Real one minute, left out the next, he must be one of the few players who wishes the international period never ended. “When a player isn’t a key part of his team or isn’t getting regular games, it’s matches like these with the national side that give you life,” Isco added. “The boss believes in me, I’m happy to work hard, improve to try and become a starter for club and country.” Advertisement (Editing by Ken Ferris) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:23 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Japanese automaker Nissan Motor Co Ltd on Wednesday unveiled an all-new Altima sedan, and demonstrated the auto industry's problem adjusting new-model investments fast enough to keep pace with shifts in consumer demand. The Altima, and rival midpriced sedans such as Toyota Motor Corp's Camry and Honda Motor Co Ltd's Accord,  used to be high-volume sellers, keeping assembly lines rolling full-time. All three automakers several years ago committed to significant redesigns of their sedans. Since those investments were made, demand for midsized cars has collapsed in the United States due to the growing consumer appetite for larger SUVs and pickup trucks. Sales of sedans made up 36.8 percent of the U.S. market in 2017, down sharply from 51.2 percent in 2012. Through February this year, sedans made up 33.3 percent of new-vehicle sales and are down 12 percent versus the same period in 2017. Advertisement Jack Hollis, Toyota's North American head of sales and marketing, said the automaker expects by the end of 2018 sedans will make up around 30 percent of sales. Advertisement Last summer, Honda launched its all-new Accord, arguing that the well-reviewed sedan would help it maintain sales levels in a declining market. Instead, sales of the new Accord dropped nearly 16 percent in February from a year ago. Honda said that between April and June it will halt production at its Marysville, Ohio, plant for 11 days to reduce a high inventory of unsold vehicles. Nissan executives at the New York auto show on Wednesday said the new Altima has a chance to buck the trend. "I think we’re going to have a hell of a lot of conquests in the segment," Denis Le Vot, who took over running Nissan's North American operations earlier this year, told Reuters. "Not only from competing models, but also the whole market." Nissan has added all-wheel drive, automatic rear braking and some autonomous features that help drivers stay in their lane or remain a set distance behind the vehicle in front to make the revamped Altima more attractive to consumers. Le Vot said automakers will have to add more features to remain competitive in the sedan segment. "Do we put more things in the car? Yes, because the market and the value of the market is going to that."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Rivals are shifting investments to trucks and sport utility vehicles. Intensifying competition among automakers to sell sedans should lead to higher discounts and narrower profits, said car-shopping website Autotrader's executive publisher, Brian Moody. "That's good news if you want to buy a sedan because you should be able to get a good deal," Moody said. Johan de Nysschen, head of General Motors Co's luxury Cadillac division, reiterated plans to cut the number of sedans in its family of vehicles and add sport utility vehicles and crossovers to its lineup. Advertisement "Just as we are rebalancing our portfolio and reducing our number of sedan entries, so I imagine others will be doing the same," de Nysschen said on Wednesday. "The market just won't sustain that many derivatives anymore." The three big Japanese automakers, however, have large U.S. factories dedicated to midsized sedans such as the Altima, Camry and Accord. Toyota's Hollis said Toyota remains committed to sedans. "We're not pulling anything back, we will continue to invest," he said. "If other players want to pull out, fine, we'll just take more market share." Nissan's Le Vot said the U.S. midsize sedan segment should stabilize at around 1.6 million units annually. "This is a very big playground and we have enough room in this playground to play with our car." (Additional reporting by David Shepardson in New York; Editing by Joe White and Matthew Lewis) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:50 A.M. E.D.T.
 BAGHDAD —  OPEC is seeking "very long-term" cooperation with other crude exporters, the secretary general of the oil exporting group said on Wednesday. Mohammad Barkindo was commenting on news that top OPEC producer Saudi Arabia and non-OPEC Russia were working on a long-term pact that could extend controls over world crude supplies by major exporters for up to 20 years. Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman announced the plan in an interview with Reuters on Monday. Russia, the world's biggest oil producer, has worked with the 14-member Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries in previous oil gluts to rein in supplies and push up prices, but a 10 to 20-year deal between the two would be unprecedented. "We are looking for a very long-term cooperation between OPEC and non-OPEC producing countries," Barkindo told an energy conference in Baghdad. Advertisement OPEC states, Russia and several other non-OPEC producers agreed to cut supplies from January 2017 to lift oil prices that plunged from above $110 a barrel in 2014 to below $30 in 2016. Advertisement A deal to extend the pact, which has boosted prices to around $70 now, was agreed in November. The output cuts are now due to run until the end of 2018. "In addition to the 24 countries that came to sign the declaration of cooperation in November, we have six more producing countries who came to show solidarity," he said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Several oil exporters have suggested a six-month extension to the supply pact, Iraqi Oil Minister Jabar al-Luaibi told the conference, without identifying the countries. Regarding Iraq's own resources, the minister said OPEC's second-largest producer might have oil reserves twice as big as indicated by current estimates of about 150 billion barrels. He said the crude market was stabilising and prices had "improved", adding that a decision on whether to extend cuts beyond 2018 depended on meetings to be held by the exporters by the end of this year. Barkindo said OPEC was evaluating the impact of the supply pact to determine the "appropriate action" when it expired. In addition, he said investment in the oil industry was  increasing as oil prices recovered but had not yet reached the level before the downturn in 2014. (Reporting by Ahmed Rasheed; Writing by Maher Chmaytelli; Editing by Edmund Blair) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By The Associated Press Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. RECLUSIVE KIM JONG UN BREAKS ISOLATION North Korea's leader made a surprise visit to Beijing this week and his travel itinerary this year will include a summit with his South Korean counterpart, with possible summits with the U.S., Russia and Japan to follow. 2. 'YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT IT'S LIKE UNTIL YOU EXPERIENCE IT' A blinding national spotlight is shining on the family of Stephon Clark, the 22-year-old unarmed black man killed by police in Sacramento, California, last week. 3. HOW JUSTICES MAY BE LEANING ON REDISTRICTING There are signs the Supreme Court could place limits on drawing maps for political gain. 4. OPTIONS DIM FOR SYRIA'S VANQUISHED REBELS Three years removed from a massive military parade, Army of Islam fighters stand alone in eastern Ghouta facing a stark choice: Surrender or die. 5. ONLINE ADS FROM UNLICENSED POT SHOPS ROIL CALIFORNIA MARKET State-licensed marijuana shops are complaining they are being undercut by black market sellers that don't pay taxes and can offer cheaper products. 6. TAKE TWO TABLETS — AND A SELFIE Your doctor's orders may one day include a smartphone video to make sure you took your medicine. 7. WHERE EXTREMISTS ARE EXPERIENCING A RESURGENCE Islamic State group attacks and kidnappings are on the rise in northern Iraq, particularly around Kirkuk were political tensions have further fractured security forces. 8. PALESTINIANS PREPARE MASS DEMONSTRATIONS ALONG GAZA BORDER It's a high-risk gambit by embattled Hamas rulers meant to shore up their shaky rule, but with potentially deadly consequences with its Israeli foe. 9. FILM ACADEMY PRESIDENT KEEPS JOB FOLLOWING INVESTIGATION John Bailey, a cinematographer whose credits include "Groundhog Day," ''The Big Chill" and "As Good as It Gets," was cleared of any wrongdoing in a decade-old sexual misconduct allegation. 10. WHO THINKS HE SHOULD BE MVP Cavaliers star LeBron James tells AP he thinks he's worthy of a fifth MVP award, but the Rockets' James Harden is favored to capture the coveted award. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:21 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Americans still love Labrador retrievers, but the nation's flirtation with French bulldogs has reached new heights. Labs remain the country's most popular purebred dog for a 27th year,  while German shepherds and golden retrievers have hung onto the second and third spots in new American Kennel Club rankings released Wednesday. But Frenchies hit a highest-ever No. 4, and German shorthaired pointers cracked the top 10 for the first time. ___ THE REST OF THE TOP 10 The bulldog is fifth, after notching a record No. 4 ranking last year. Sixth through 10th are the beagle, the poodle, the Rottweiler, the Yorkshire terrier and the German shorthaired pointer. Advertisement Initially bred for hunting, the handsome, athletic "GSP" is increasingly visible as a bomb-sniffing dog and in agility and other canine sports. A GSP also won the prestigious Westminster Kennel Club dog show in 2016. Advertisement "They're a dog that will do anything you want, except lay around," says Jeffrey Drogin, a longtime owner in New York. The versatile, sociable Lab has had the longest-ever reign as top dog. It broke the record in 2013. But you can't beat the beagle for consistency. It's the only breed to make the top 10 for every decade since the AKC's 1884 founding. ___ THE FRENCHIE SURGE The French bulldog has bolted from 76th to fourth in just 20 years. It previously peaked at sixth in the 1910s and again in 2015-2016. Frenchie aficionados appreciate the interest but worry that it's drawing unscrupulous breeders and under-informed owners. "It scares me that because it's popular, everybody wants it. But not every family is right for a French bulldog," says Kerry Boyd, a Natick, Massachusetts-based dog handler who breeds Frenchies. The downsized bulldogs with the pointed ears and funny expressions have become favorites of city dwellers who value compact, relatively quiet dogs. They've enjoyed exposure from movies, ads and celebrity owners. The late Carrie Fisher's Frenchie even inspired an alien creature in last year's "Star Wars: The Last Jedi." Then the breed made headlines this month when a Frenchie puppy died after a flight attendant forced it into an overhead bin. Advertisement The death stirred discussion of breathing problems in French bulldogs and other short-snout breeds (though no pets belong in overhead compartments). Flat-faced dogs can be prone to overheating and sometimes need nasal or palate surgery. Frenchies and bulldogs also can be susceptible to certain spinal and eye problems. They are often born by cesarean section because of their big heads.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Given all that, New York's then-newsweekly The Village Voice devoted a 2015 cover to French bulldogs and urged: "Don't Buy This Dog." Newton, Massachusetts-based veterinarian Dr. John de Jong sees Frenchies' problems firsthand, but he notes that other breeds are prone to conditions of their own. "I would say to anybody purchasing a breed of any kind: Do their homework," says de Jong, president-elect of the American Veterinary Medical Association. ___ OTHER MOVERS The Siberian husky and Australian shepherd have jumped into the top 20 in the last decade. The Chihuahua, pug and Maltese have tumbled out. ___ THE RAREST BREED It's the Norwegian lundehund, a six-toed, unusually flexible dog that historically hunted cliff-dwelling puffins. ___ DOODLES, MIXES AND THE BIG PICTURE The rankings reflect puppies and other dogs newly registered in 2017. The AKC, the nation's oldest purebred dog registry, doesn't release raw numbers of dogs. The club doesn't chart such popular hybrids as Labradoodles and puggles, nor other mixed-breed dogs. However, they can register as AKC "canine partners" for dog sports. Overall, the AVMA estimates there are about 70 million pet dogs nationwide (and over 74 million pet cats.) Advertisement ___ THE DEBATE Whatever the rankings, animal-rights activists say purebred fads drive puppy mills, consign other dogs to shelters and prioritize looks over health. "The aesthetic standards of the AKC can leave dogs crippled and in near-constant pain," People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals wrote to the club this month. Breeders such as Boyd say they spend thousands of dollars on testing to propagate healthy dogs. The AKC argues that breeding preserves specific traits that can help police pick K-9s or households choose suitable pets. Whether purebred or mixed breed, "the most important thing is that you love the dog that's yours and that you responsibly own it and care for it," says AKC spokeswoman Gina DiNardo. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:38 A.M. E.D.T.
 BEIJING —  The Chinese owner of Swedish car brand Volvo said on Wednesday that the autonomous driving industry should move forward prudently in the wake of a deadly accident in the United States this month that has rekindled a debate about safety. Li Shufu, the head of Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co Ltd [GEELY.UL] said at an event in Beijing it was important for automakers and governments to look at regulations and what sort of standards were needed to keep people safe. "One accident can kill the whole industry... So we must move with caution," Li, who took a $9 billion stake in German carmaker Daimler AG last month, said at a Volvo-sponsored event on connected and automated cars. He said excessive haste would backfire, and that a single accident could delay progress by as much as a year. Advertisement "The accident reminds us that no matter how fast we develop, safety is the number one priority," he said. "If safety cannot be guaranteed, no automated cars (should be allowed)." Advertisement The comments come as the global industry reels from a fatal accident in the Tempe, Arizona, involving a self-driving car from Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL], the first death attributed to a self-driving car operating in autonomous mode. Uber has suspended North American tests of its autonomous vehicles after the fatal collision on March 18. Its partner, chipmaker Nvidia Corp, said this week it has also suspended self-driving tests across the globe.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The accident has ramped up pressure on the industry to prove its software and sensors are safe. Volvo Cars Chief Executive Hakan Samuelsson said accidents were unfortunate and the industry had to move carefully, but that "saying no to technology would be the wrong answer" given human error was also a big factor in many collisions. "Technology is still the most promising answer to reducing (accidents)," he said at the event in Beijing. In China, official support for driverless technology remains strong. The government gave its consent to internet firm Baidu Inc to test self-driving cars on city streets just days after the fatal accident in the United States. Baidu, which has a self-driving project dubbed Apollo, is leading China's push in driverless technology, with the government keen to keep up with global rivals such as Tesla Inc and Waymo, the self-driving arm of Google parent Alphabet Inc. (Reporting by Norihiko Shirouzu; Writing by Adam Jourdan; Editing by Christopher Cushing) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:45 A.M. E.D.T.
 LOS ANGELES —  The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has concluded its review of a misconduct allegation against film academy president John Bailey and determined that no further action is required. The film academy said late Tuesday that Bailey will remain in his position, which he has held since August. Bailey, a cinematographer whose credits include "Groundhog Day," ''The Big Chill" and "As Good as It Gets," had previously denied the allegation that he attempted to touch a woman inappropriately on a movie set a decade ago. The film academy says the membership and administration committee and its sub-committee took his response, the claim and corroborating statements into account in its review. Outside counsel was also consulted, including from Ivy Kagan Bierman who is an adviser to the Anita Hill-chaired Commission on Eliminating Sexual Harassment and Promoting Equality in the Workplace. Advertisement The committee's unanimous conclusion was also backed by the academy's Board of Governors. Bailey's attorney David Schindler did not immediately reply to an email seeking comment. Advertisement The investigation comes as the academy has sought to make the fight against sexual misconduct a central goal after the wave of revelations beginning in October that brought down movie mogul Harvey Weinstein and spread throughout the industry. Bailey was two months into his presidency in October when Weinstein's membership was revoked. Prior to Weinstein, only one other person has had their film academy membership withdrawn, and that was for loaning out awards screeners.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. At the time, Bailey said in a memo to members that the academy "can be a part of a larger initiative to define standards of behavior and to support the vulnerable women and men who may be at personal and career risk because of violations of ethical standards by their peers." The academy adopted its first code of conduct in December, which stipulated that the academy is no place for "people who abuse their status, power or influence in a manner that violates standards of decency," and made it easier to suspend or expel members. The claim against Bailey investigated by the academy was received on March 13. In its statement Tuesday, the academy said it will refrain from discussing the specifics of the claim out of respect for the confidentiality of the claimant and Bailey. The organization's goal, the statement said, is "to encourage workplace environments that support creativity, equality, and respect." ___ AP Entertainment Reporter Andrew Dalton contributed from Los Angeles. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
As a new season dawns, many baseball people wonder where the game evolves from here. It is not a question of if things will change, only when and how. 
On Baseball  By                     
 TYLER KEPNER
 
MARCH 28, 2018
 Imagine teleporting into a baseball video game. That, John Mozeliak said, is how he felt watching college hitters on a recent visit to a Division I program. All the data that might appear on the screen of a virtual game was available, in real time, during batting practice. “These kids are getting instant feedback,” said Mozeliak, the St. Louis Cardinals’ president for baseball operations. “They know how hard they’re hitting it and they know what angle they’re hitting it at. They know right away what happens if they make subtle changes. So, mentally, it’s easier for these kids to just make the change, because they’re used to that type of instant feedback.” Give elite athletes an incentive to play a certain way — and the tools to show them how — and this is what you get: a convergence of talent and technology that has rapidly turned baseball into a test of power at the plate and on the mound. Hitters seek home runs and pitchers hunt strikeouts, and both statistics reached unprecedented levels last season: 6,105 homers and 40,104 strikeouts. But as a new season dawns, many baseball people wonder where the game evolves from here. It is not a question of if things will change, they say, only when and how. Advertisement “Everything goes in cycles, and you swing too far before you have to make a correction,” said Cleveland Indians reliever Andrew Miller, who is entering his 13th season. “That’s just the reality of it, no matter what it is. By the time you realize it’s a problem, it’s too late, in a sense. The teams that win are the ones that adapt early on.” The Houston Astros won the title last season by mastering the modern game with a roster of contact-hitting sluggers who were instructed to swing only if they thought they could hit a home run. They pulled it off for a simple reason: talent. “Look, at the core of it? They have great players,” said David Forst, the general manager of the division rival Oakland Athletics. “They have stars. So whether it was a philosophy of contact versus power, they drafted high and they nailed the right guys. They got Carlos Correa. They did a great job with Jose Altuve. Star players are going to succeed no matter what the environment is.” Advertisement In the early 2000s, the low-budget A’s famously found cheap, underappreciated assets to complement a traditional core of talented, young starting pitchers. This was the story of “Moneyball,” of course, and soon the rest of the industry caught on, challenging conventional principles. This is why power hitters like George Springer and Mike Trout are batting first or second in the batting order, and why bunts and stolen bases have mostly fallen out of favor. It is why infielders often shift drastically from batter to batter, and sometimes from pitch to pitch. The Philadelphia Phillies’ new manager, Gabe Kapler, even plans to flip outfielders within games, based on where the ball is most likely to be hit. “I think there’s a great possibility that shifts look entirely different five years from now,” said Ross Atkins, the Toronto Blue Jays’ general manager. “There’s no doubt in my mind that batters will adjust and pitchers will adjust.” The uppercut swing — a callback to the wisdom of Ted Williams, whether young hitters know it or not — is the adjustment of the moment. With more and more grounders swallowed up by smartly positioned infielders, hitters decided to lift balls over their heads. Pitchers, conditioned to exploit a lower strike zone, largely fell into the trap. Differences in the ball itself have encouraged the hitters. Commissioner Rob Manfred has consistently stated that the balls fall within specifications, though the league is taking steps to standardize their storage. The Arizona Diamondbacks will store balls in a humidor this season, like the Colorado Rockies, in an effort to make the ball react normally in games played well above sea level. “The balls are just better,” Atkins said. “They’re more consistent. The margin for error has gotten better and better.” Better most likely means harder. Former players and longtime executives bemoan umpires’ habit of removing nearly every ball that touches the dirt around the plate. Pitchers can use a scratch to enhance movement, but even if they don’t, a well-worn ball tends to not fly as far as a smooth one. In any case, the essential calculus of baseball — a home run is worth four bases, a single just one — clearly motivates hitters to go deep. Pitchers have responded with more of a north/south strategy, with fastballs riding above the trendy swing path, and curveballs buckling below. No wonder, then, that strikeouts keep rising. Advertisement The Astros’ Dallas Keuchel, who led the American League in innings pitched en route to winning a Cy Young Award in 2015, said teams should value pitchers like him who induce weak contact, run lower pitch counts and work deeper into games. It is a logical theory, but the vast inventory of hard-throwing amateurs — cultivated at velocity factories, raised to push the limits of the radar gun — will always captivate teams. 
                Aaron Judge combines his imposing body (6-7, 282 pounds) with a technically proficient swing to become baseball’s most powerful hitter.             “Getting pitchers that have stuff is still going to be at the top of the list, and stuff usually means swing-and-miss from the hitters,” Astros General Manager Jeff Luhnow said. “So that’s going to result in strikeouts.” Luhnow stressed the value of pitchers who log innings and save the bullpen, though the Astros’ championship roster included no pitcher who worked 160 regular-season innings for the team. To cover all those innings, the Astros, like many teams, plan to carry 13 pitchers this season, which means a short bench. That helps explain the increasing value teams place on super-utility players who can start regularly in the infield or outfield, like the Astros’ Marwin Gonzalez, the Los Angeles Dodgers’ Chris Taylor and the Chicago Cubs’ Ben Zobrist.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Cubs pay Zobrist an average of $14 million per season, and spend an average of $23 million per season for Jason Heyward, their defense-first right fielder. The lighter free-agent contracts given this winter to one-dimensional players like Lucas Duda (one year, $3.5 million with Kansas City) and Logan Morrison (one year, $6.5 million with Minnesota) may offer a hint of what’s next. “Everyone talks about WAR, and WAR isn’t just the offensive side of the game,” said Atlanta Braves General Manager Alex Anthopoulos, referring to wins above replacement. “So I think teams are valuing defense and base running more and more, and the more complete a player you are, the more valuable you are. Generally speaking, there’s more value placed on defense — much more.” With so many high-strikeout, high-power hitters in the game, the value of such players has diminished. Theo Epstein, the Cubs’ president for baseball operations, said this also reflects itself in championships. Two recent World Series winners — the Astros and the 2015 Kansas City Royals — rarely struck out. While the 2016 champion Cubs fanned more often, Epstein noted that they took the ball the other way at pivotal moments throughout that postseason. A change in hitters’ approaches is already underway, Epstein said. “You can’t see it if you’re too close to it,” he said. “But that’s exactly what’s coming next: teams that make contact in this age of great stuff will be greatly rewarded.” The richest free-agent contract of the winter went to Eric Hosmer, who left the Royals for an eight-year, $144 million deal with the San Diego Padres. Hosmer hit a career-high .318 last season with 104 strikeouts; that may sound like a lot, but 125 players had more. Hosmer said people harped too much on his lack of fly balls. Advertisement “I hit .320 last year and people want to talk about how I hit ground balls all day,” Hosmer said. “Do I need to get the ball in the air more? Yeah, probably. But when you’re talking about it taking away from a season like that, that’s when we’re valuing that stuff a little too much.” The best scouts and analysts can identify a player’s potential with more precision than ever. Not all hitters should try to raise their launch angle; they might just loft a lot of harmless pop flies. Likewise, not all hitters should prioritize contact; they might just slap a lot of low-impact grounders early in the count. But with so much money at stake, and so much technology available to a generation that craves it, the players will adapt their game to fit the ever-shifting needs of the industry. In the Astros’ farm system, some hitters use sensors on their bat handles to track everything from bat speed to body rotation. They play on fields with cameras mounted everywhere, measuring every movement. Who knows what will come from it all? “Players respond to it and ask for it,” Luhnow said. “You can use it for defensive alignment, base running, hitting and pitching. We do capture quite a bit.” He added, with a laugh: “It’s the selfie culture, so we’re just providing the technology for them.” A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Right Now, Power Rules.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:35 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas rejected on Wednesday criticism of Berlin's decision to compete against Israel for a seat on the U.N. Security Council in 2019 and 2020, saying it was normal for a number of countries to seek representation. Maas told reporters before his first United Nations visit as foreign minister that Germany's candidacy had been announced long ago, and did not diminish its strong support for Israel. "We are not running against anyone; we are running for a seat," he said, following the criticism from Washington's nominee as U.S. ambassador to Berlin and others. "That is a topic that one can deal with very normally." The Council comprises five permanent members and 10 non-permanent members elected by the U.N. General Assembly for two-year terms. Germany last held a non-permanent seat in 2011-12 and is vying with Israel and Belgium for one of the two seats to be filled in 2019-20. Advertisement Richard Grenell, whose nomination is held up in the Senate, said earlier this month that the United States had brokered a deal in the 1990s with countries in the U.N.'s Western European and Others Group to allow Israel to run uncontested for a seat. Advertisement Grenell, the U.S. spokesman at the U.N. from 2001 to 2009, tweeted about the issue on March 14, saying, "Israel has waited 19 years! The US must demand that Europe keep its word." German diplomats deny any such agreement was made. The Israeli mission to the U.N. declined to comment on Grenell's tweet. Conservative and pro-Israeli groups in the United States have also criticized Germany's decision to run for the seat at the same time as Israel.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Maas said Germany was well-placed to serve on the Council since it was the second largest provider of both funds and troops for the U.N. and played a big role in humanitarian and stabilization missions, as well as on climate change. Security Council candidates must win more than two-thirds of the overall vote by the 193-member General Assembly to be elected. The election for the term beginning on Jan. 1, 2019 is due to be held in June. The Council, on which the five permanent members - the United States, Britain, France, China and Russia - hold veto powers, is the only U.N. body that can make legally binding decisions, as well as imposing sanctions and authorizing the use of force. To ensure geographical representation on the Council, there are five seats for African and Asian states; one for Eastern European states; two for the Latin American and Caribbean states and two for Western European and other states. Regional groups generally agree upon the candidates to put forward and competitive races for seats are increasingly rare. (Reporting by Andrea Shalal, Michelle Nichols and Sabine Siebold; editing by David Stamp) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc's quarterly profit and sales beat analysts' estimates on Wednesday helped by higher prescription volumes, but concerns surrounding its retail business played on investors' minds. Shares of the company that rose as much as 3.1 percent in early trading, pared gains to trade up just 0.3 percent at $66.56 later in the morning. Like other drugstore chains, Walgreens is seeing a drop in customer visits to its retail stores, where it sells over-the-counter drugs and cosmetics, as purchases have now shifted online.  To stanch falling sales at retail - its front-end business - the company has focused on boosting sales through its prescription only pharmacy business by signing partnerships with pharmacy benefit managers such as Prime Therapeutics that has given it more than 20 million additional customers.  Walgreens is also pulling non-profitable items off shelves at its front-end stores and promoting store-brands to boost margins.  The efforts came at a cost - same-store sales at its retail stores fell 2.7 percent in the quarter, continuing a nearly two-year slide. Analysts had expected flat growth. "The Street is panicked about poor retail activity, panicked about Amazon. When they don't quantify what the impact of their rationalization decisions (are), they shoot themselves in the foot. The stock should be up a lot more", Baird analyst Eric Coldwell told Reuters.  Walgreens said it did not see much of an uptick in prescription volumes during one the harshest flu-season in the United States in decades, surprising analysts who expected the rise in flu shots to have boosted sales significantly. To simply say ‘flu was pretty normal’ and not quantify it was a big mistake," Coldwell added. Same-store sales at its pharmacies rose 5.1 percent, but missed analysts expectations for a 5.4 percent rise, according to four analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Walgreens filled 9.1 percent more prescriptions in the quarter, but that was mainly driven by customers seeking higher-priced specialty drugs. Deerfield, Illinois-based Walgreens lifted its full-year adjusted earnings forecast to between $5.85 and $6.05 per share from between $5.45 and $5.70 per share. Analysts were estimating $5.78 per share for the year.  The raise in forecast reflects a $350 million tax benefit for fiscal year 2018, an increase of about $150 million from the company's previous estimate.  Excluding items, Walgreens earned $1.73 per share. Net sales rose 12 percent to $33.02 billion. Analysts on average were expecting a profit of $1.55 per share on revenue of $32.19 billion.  (Reporting by Uday Sampath and Tamara Mathias in Bengaluru; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty and Shailesh Kuber) Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement Supported by By Reuters JOHANNESBURG — Under-fire Australia coach Darren Lehmann had no knowledge of a ball-tampering plot by his two most senior players and allegations that he then led a cover-up are false, Cricket Australia said on Wednesday. Sacked captain Steve Smith and firebrand opening batsman David Warner have both been banned for 12 months, while Cameron Bancroft got a nine month ban in a scandal that has stunned and angered fans around the world. Former players have been calling for Lehmann's head after television footage showed him sending a message out onto the field before Bancroft dropped the piece of sandpaper he was clandestinely using to rough up the ball down his trousers. But Cricket Australia chief James Sutherland said Lehmann was as surprised as the thousands of spectators in Cape Town's Newlands stadium and millions more watching at home when images on big screens showed Bancroft brazenly cheating. "In Darren's defence, I do want to clarify that matter," Sutherland told reporters in response to a question about what Lehmann told 12th man Peter Handscomb via walky talky before he ran on the field to pass the coach's message onto Bancroft. "He sent a message to say: 'What the hell is going on?' He didn't use 'hell', he used another word. Darren wasn't involved and didn't know of the plan." Lehmann, a burly former player known for his no-nonsense approach, has been silent since the ball-tampering incident on March 24, after which Smith admitted there was a plan to try and alter the state of the ball to make it reverse-swing. Smith and Bancroft will have to wait two years before they are considered for leadership roles, CA announced on Wednesday. But the stiffest penalties were reserved for Warner, one of the most destructive batsmen of his generation who has relished an in-your-face style that has made him unpopular with many opposing players, fans and ex-players. Vice-Captain until days ago, Warner will never again be considered for a leadership role after CA said he masterminded the secret plan, told Bancroft he should carry it out and showed him how to use the sandpaper to scuff up the ball. Smith and Warner have also been sacked from their Indian Premier League teams for 2018, stripping them of huge potential income after the Rajasthan Royals and Sunrisers Hyderabad agreed to pay $1.07 million and $1.84 million respectively for their services.  (Reporting by Joe Brock; Editing by Ken Ferris) Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  A move into defensive stocks helped Britain's FTSE climb to a one-week high on Wednesday, shaking off broader concerns over the U.S. tech sector that rattled global equity markets. Shares in pharma firm Shire surged. Shire Plc jumped around 14 percent after Japan's Takeda Pharmaceutical Co said it was considering a possible offer for the London-listed drugmaker. "We see the possible strategic fit given the Japanese pharma's focus therapeutic areas of oncology, gastrointestinal and neuroscience, with Shire bolstering the latter two franchises," analysts at Jefferies said in a note. The gains in Shire helped the FTSE recover early losses, as bad news about U.S. tech giants and fears of a trade war fuelled concern over valuations across global equities. Advertisement The FTSE 100 index ended up 0.6 percent at 7,044.74 points, whereas Europe's STOXX 600 index rose 0.3 percent. Demand for defensive, bond-proxy-type stocks offset falls among cyclical sectors such as mining and energy. British mid caps fell 0.2 percent. Advertisement Global trade tensions hit the value of key metals such as copper, and a surprise increase in U.S. crude inventories sent Brent crude futures <LCOc1> back below $70 a barrel. Tech stocks have come under pressure amid signs regulators might rein in the sector following years of strong growth and privacy concerns around Facebook and Google.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Facebook shares are now down 14 percent this month. "Everyone wants to know how far this tech sell-off has to go and how much it affects everyone else," said IG's Chris Beauchamp. "People can cope with a modest sell-off, but when you get to these proportions and it hits the strongest performers so hard ... it sends the signal that others can be vulnerable, too." Defensive stocks such as utilities, however, gained as investors bought back into sectors that have been relatively unloved as bond yields marched higher, rendering their big dividends less attractive. Unilever was among top FTSE gainers, rising 4.7 percent after UBS upgraded the consumer goods giant to "buy" on expectations of improving volume growth and operating margin expansion. Capita rose 1.5 percent after a person familiar with the matter said the outsourcing firm would publish a five-year transformation plan and details of a rights issue with its annual results on April 26. (GRAPHIC - FTSE 100 vs 250: https://reut.rs/2pLiUyu) (Reporting by Tom Pfeiffer and Kit Rees; Editing by Larry King and Mark Potter) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 MOSCOW —  The Latest on the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in Britain (all times local): 10:50 p.m. British police say they believe a Russian ex-spy and his daughter first came into contact with a military-grade nerve agent at their front door. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Dean Haydon says in a statement Wednesday police are now focusing their investigation in and around Sergei Skripal's home. London's Metropolitan Police say they have "identified the highest concentration of the nerve agent, to-date, as being on the front door of the address." The revelation is significant because it's the first time police have offered any suggestion about where the Skripals were poisoned. Police have also searched a variety of sites around Salisbury, including a pub, a restaurant and a cemetery. Advertisement Britain blames Russia for the poisoning, triggering a diplomatic dispute between Moscow and Western countries. Moscow vehemently denies any involvement. Advertisement ___ 9:45 p.m. President Donald Trump has spoken with British Prime Minister Theresa May about the coordinated effort by Western allies to expel Russian intelligence operatives. That's according to the White House, which says the leaders agreed Wednesday that dismantling Russian spy rings is a priority to "curtail Russian clandestine activities and prevent future chemical weapons attacks on either country's soil." More than 150 Russian envoys have been expelled so far. The moves came weeks after Russia allegedly poisoned a former spy and his daughter on British soil with a nerve agent on March 4. The White House says Trump and May also discussed the recent passage of a law designed to make it easier for U.S. and foreign law enforcement officials to share access to electronic data stored overseas. ___ 8:30 p.m. Russia's envoy to the top trans-Atlantic security and rights group says the expulsions of Russian diplomats over the poisoning of an ex-spy in Britain have set a bad precedent. Alexander Lukashevich, the Russian envoy at the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, said the expulsion of more than 150 Russian diplomats by more than 20 nations created "a dangerous precedent of a collective punishment of a nation whose guilt hasn't been proven." Britain has accused Russia of a nerve agent attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter. Russia has fiercely rejected the accusations, calling them unfounded. Advertisement Lukashevich, speaking in televised remarks Wednesday, dismissed the British claim as a "large-scale provocation." ___ 8:05 p.m. A senior Russian diplomat says that Moscow is in "no rush" to retaliate to the wave of expulsions of Russian diplomats over the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain. Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told the RIA Novosti news agency Wednesday that Russia is "thoughtfully and thoroughly" considering its response to the expulsion of more than 150 Russian diplomats by more than 20 nations in a show of solidarity with Britain. Britain has accused Russia of a nerve agent attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter. Russia has fiercely rejected the accusations, calling them baseless. Ryabkov told Interfax that the expulsions were directed by London and Washington, adding that other nations succumbed to their pressure. He added that "all options are on the table" regarding Russia's response. ___ 7:45 p.m. Malta has decided to recall its ambassador to Russia over the nerve agent attack on a former spy in Britain. Initially, Malta held off on recalling Ambassador Carmel Brincat for consultations. A government spokesman said doing so would have effectively terminated diplomatic relations, given the small size of Malta's embassy in Moscow. But on Wednesday, the foreign ministry announced it was recalling Brincat and was standing "in full solidarity with the United Kingdom in the face of this serious challenge to our common security." Advertisement In a statement, the government said it agrees with Britain's assessment that it is "highly likely that the Russian Federation is responsible" for the poisoning. ___ 7:30 p.m. The niece of Sergei Skripal, the Russian ex-spy poisoned in Britain along with his daughter, has said her uncle and cousin have only a slim chance of surviving. Viktoria Skripal told the BBC: "Out of 99 percent I have maybe 1 percent of hope. Whatever it was has given them a very small chance of survival." The former spy and his daughter Yulia, who were found slumped on a bench in Salisbury on March 4, remain in critical condition after they were poisoned by a nerve agent. Britain blames Russia for the attack, but Moscow denies responsibility. Viktoria Skripal also said that her uncle's mother had not been told of the incident. "The first priority was to protect our granny so that she wouldn't hear or find out anything," she said. ___ 5:25 p.m. Slovakia's foreign minister says the government has decided to recall its ambassador to Moscow for consultations over the nerve agent attack on a former spy in Britain. But Miroslav Lajcak says after a meeting of the country's Security Council that the government is not yet ready to join two dozen other countries in expelling Russian diplomats over the incident. Although Lajcak calls Slovakia's move "a serious diplomatic step," the British ambassador to Bratislava, Andrew Garth, is not impressed.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Garth has told the Slovak public television and tweeted that the seriousness of the attack "requires a firm response." Advertisement The ambassador adds that "I acknowledge the decision. But cannot say I am not disappointed." ___ 4:20 p.m. Germany is rejecting suggestions it was premature to expel four Russian diplomats over the attack on an ex-spy in Britain. Opposition lawmakers have criticized the government for joining other European countries and the United States in ordering the Russian embassy officials to leave the country. Foreign Ministry spokesman Rainer Breul said Russia had made no effort to cooperative constructively in the British investigation. Breul said Wednesday there was "no other plausible explanation" than that Russia was behind the attack and expelling four diplomats deemed to have intelligence ties was "measured and appropriate." Government spokesman Steffen Seibert said "the investigations that have already happened in Great Britain are of a very high standard and the decision by European Union member states was taken after intensive European contacts and intensive explanations by the British government." ___ 2:40 p.m. Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has reportedly said his country won't expel Russian diplomats based on "an allegation." NATO-member Turkey this week condemned the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain and called for the perpetrators to be brought to justice. Advertisement The government said however that it had no plans to follow NATO and EU allies in ousting Russian diplomats. Erdogan reportedly told journalists: "Just because some countries took a step based on an allegation, we don't have to (decide to) take the same step."  His comments were published in Hurriyet and other newspapers on Wednesday. Britain has accused Russia of being behind nerve agent attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter. More than 20 nations have expelled over 130 Russian diplomats this week in a show of solidarity. Turkey has cultivated closer ties with Moscow as its relations with western allies have deteriorated. Ankara and Moscow are also working together to try and end the Syrian conflict. ___ 1:40 p.m. Montenegro has decided to expel a Russian diplomat from the tiny Adriatic state which joined NATO against Moscow's wishes. The Montenegro government said Wednesday it has informed the Russian embassy in Podgorica of the measure and gave the unidentified diplomat seven days to leave the country. With the move, Montenegro, which is not yet an EU member, joined a wave of countries and groups expelling Russian diplomats over the nerve-agent attack on a former spy in Britain. Montenegro government says it has taken the decision "in coordination with our allies." A former close Russian ally, Montenegro has accused the Kremlin of being behind an alleged coup attempt in October 2016 because of its NATO bid. Moscow has vehemently denied involvement. Advertisement ___ 1 p.m. The Russian Foreign Ministry says British special services could have been behind the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain. Britain has accused Russia of a nerve agent attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter. Russia has fiercely rejected the accusations, calling them baseless. More than 20 nations have expelled over 130 Russian diplomats this week in a show of solidarity with Britain. Russia denounced the actions as "boorish" and pledged to retaliate. The Russian Foreign ministry's claim Wednesday of "possible involvement" of British special services in the poisoning marks Moscow's bluntest claim yet of alleged British foul play. British officials have previously rejected such Russian claims as nonsense. Moscow said the British failure to provide evidence suggests the poisoning was a "major political provocation." ___ 12:45 p.m. The Kremlin says it will respond soon to the recent expulsions of more than 130 Russian diplomats from Western nations. Monday's mass expulsions by the United States, European Union nations and some other countries were a show of solidarity for Britain, which blames Russia for poisoning a former Russian intelligence agent in Britain with a military-grade nerve agent. Moscow vehemently denies responsibility. Asked if Russia is going to react to the expulsions, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Wednesday that Russia's response will follow an that that it will be "timely and will suit the interests of Russia." Russia is observing a nationwide day of mourning on Wednesday for the victims of a shopping mall fire in Siberia. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Frugal Traveler The food is delicious. The access to natural beauty is even better. By Lucas Peterson The change, and how quickly it came, took me by surprise. One minute we were in the heart of Tucson, Ariz., among the restaurants, coffee shops and businesses you’d expect in a metro area of more than a million people. Scarcely 15 minutes later it was as if we were hundreds of miles from civilization. Surrounded by the muted bronze and sage colors of the desert, my cousin Melanie Kuhlman (and her three children) and I took in the silence, the desert brush and towering saguaro cactuses that stretched 20 or 30 feet into the air. One of the best things about Tucson, I discovered, is how easy it is to leave Tucson. That’s not a knock against the city — I mean it in the most complimentary way possible. The Old Pueblo, as the city is sometimes called, is a special place. Unlike many major urban centers, whose bragging rights are that you don’t have to leave the city limits to find what you want, Tucson is a place that encourages you to explore. Yes, there is beautiful public art throughout, as well as a Unesco-recognized culinary scene. But within easy access are breathtaking mountainscapes, desert kitsch and outstanding wildlife-viewing opportunities. Tucson is worth a visit for any traveler, regardless of means, but I’m happy to say I kept well within my modest budget when I visited last month. “It’s a city that doesn’t feel as big as it is,” said my uncle Brian, an avid outdoorsman and decades-long resident (and Melanie’s dad). Melanie compared the city to Phoenix, just two hours away: “We preserve our natural desert landscape,” she said. “If you look around Phoenix, there are a lot of lawns. People have …” She paused. “Grass.” The civic predilection toward conservation was apparent at the Arizona-Sonora Desert Museum, just 10 miles outside the city ($21.95 admission for adults, $8.95 for kids ages 3 to 12). The museum, which encompasses nearly 100 acres, aims to challenge the traditional concept of what a museum can be by creating a mutually symbiotic relationship with the surrounding desert. Founded in 1952, it’s a bit of everything rolled into one: a zoo, a botanical garden and a place to hike — 85 percent of the museum is outdoors.  It happens to be a great place to take kids but is fun for all, regardless of age. I walked around the grounds with my cousin and her young ones, enjoying the surprisingly lush and diverse species of desert flora: saguaros, brittlebush and the teddy bear cholla cactus, which looks cuddly but is deceptively prickly. (Don’t touch it. Seriously.) We saw wolves, bighorn sheep, prairie dogs and even a mountain lion in different enclosures. While west of the city, I hiked a bit in Saguaro National Park. That is where I really came to appreciate the giant saguaros and understand why they’re called the guardians of the desert. They’re massive, green columnar structures with multiple arms and sharp spines, able to grow as tall as 50 or 60 feet. They look like what a child might produce if you asked for a drawing of a cactus. More great hiking opportunities await in the northeastern outskirts of the city at Sabino Canyon Recreation Area ($5 for a day pass). I went out one morning with Melanie, her husband, Erik, and their kids, and trekked along Upper Sabino Canyon road, forging into the Pusch Ridge Wilderness and intertwining with the Sabino Creek. We passed mesquite trees with their long, tentacle-like roots as well as creosote bushes, which give off a distinct, earthy desert smell after a rain. A trolley will take you up the length of the road ($10 for adults) but we hiked the length of it, and back, a distance of about 7.5 miles. Of course, there’s plenty to do within the city, too. I was lucky enough to be in town at the same time as the Tucson Rodeo, an annual tradition that began in 1925. After paying $25 for a bleacher ticket, I took in some barrel racing, in which competitors on horses run a timed course around a series of barrels — then noticed the crowd grow eager with anticipation as the bull riding began.  “And there’s the Copenhagen smile,” said one of the announcers, referring to the lopsided cheeks of someone working on a plug of chewing tobacco. One by one, the riders came out, and one by one, they fell. A bull named Mr. Hot Shot tossed his rider like a rag doll in about two seconds; a rider named Chance Strong had a little more luck, lasting nearly four seconds on a bull named Atomic Drop. To garnish a score, though, a rider must last a full eight seconds. Finally, Nate Perry from Elk City, Okla., was up to the challenge — to whoops from the crowd, he lasted the full eight and was awarded a score of 86.5. I’ve somehow managed to not talk about the food in Tucson yet — unforgivable, given the sheer volume and quality of its Sonoran-influenced cuisine. Southern Arizona has a style of Mexican food all its own, one distinguishing characteristic being the use of homemade flour tortillas. The flour tortilla, unfairly maligned by some, is elevated to an art form in Tucson: a stretchy, chewy, yielding halo that goes perfectly with both tacos and burritos.  Get your fix at Tania’s Flour Tortillas and Mexican Food, a modest restaurant in the Drexel Heights area west of the airport. My plate of carne asada was excellent — juicy and smoky — and came with rice and refried beans ($9.89). The best part, though, were the tortillas — two big ones about 18 inches in diameter that clearly had just come freshly off the grill. Also close to the airport is Aqui Con El Nene (there’s another location in north Tucson), a brick-and-mortar that specializes in a taco yaqui ($5.50), a type of taco I didn’t even know I needed in my life. Take a chile relleno stuffed with cheese, mushrooms, beef and bacon, and lay it flat on two tortillas next to some charred spring onions and you’ve practically got a meal. I didn’t stop there, though: The man behind the counter recommended the birria, a kind of spiced meat stew usually made with goat or beef. It was a good recommendation. The spicy bowl brimming with soup and fat was the color of magma, and the shredded beef inside was fall-apart tender ($7 for a small bowl). Another favorite was St. Mary’s Mexican Food, just west of the 10 Freeway, which specializes in traditional home-style Sonoran dishes. Behind the dusty orange edifice of St. Mary’s, which began as a small tamale and tortilla business in 1978, were some of the best burros (or burritos, as you may know them) and tamales I’ve had in ages. I had a nearly perfect bacon, egg and cheese burrito one morning ($4.60) packed into a beautifully pliant flour tortilla. I also got a couple of green corn tamales for the road ($2.25) — steamed in fresh green (rather than the usual tan) husks, these tamales were moist and flavorful. Traditional family-style restaurants abound, too, if you’re in the mood for a full sit-down experience with colorful décor, roaming mariachis and tableside salsas. I had a great meal at Guadalajara Original Grill, which has live music and colorful murals to accompany its traditional dishes. Salsa made at your table by roving employees is fresh and spicy (or not, depending on what you ask for) and the food is satisfying — particularly the molcajete carnitas ($15.39), pork and vegetables in a tomato-based sauce served in a searing-hot bowl made from volcanic rock. After getting a good handle on Tucson and its immediate environs, I decided to explore even farther out. I spent an entire day driving a big loop southeast of the city, stopping at different cities and towns along the way. My first destination? To do some birding, of course. Southern Arizona has some of the finest bird-watching opportunities in the country, and so I made the 100-mile drive to Whitewater Draw Wildlife Area to witness an amazing annual spectacle: the tens of thousands of sandhill cranes that winter there. The majestic birds leave early in the morning to feed, then return late in the day. I arrived around 11 and took my spot among the other watchers. Things didn’t really pick up for another hour or so — but when it did, it was unlike anything I’d ever seen. There was a far-off purring or growling noise on the horizon, with what looks to be a dark cloud. Suddenly, the cloud disappeared. Then reappeared. Finally, the cloud transformed into hundreds upon hundreds of sandhill cranes. The cranes, which share the area with cinnamon teals, northern shovelers and other birds, came in, wave after impressive wave, until thousands were milling around on the banks. Just a half-hour west, the small town of Tombstone was the next logical stop. Known for its place in history as a late 19th-century boomtown because of the presence of local silver mines, Tombstone is most famous as the site of the gunfight at the O.K. Corral. Can you see the very location where Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday stood? You certainly can ($6 admission). You can also visit the Boothill Graveyard ($3) where the victims of the shootout are buried. The stretch of Allen Street between 3rd and 6th Streets is blocked off to traffic, and it’s fun to walk around and observe the Wild West kitsch and street performers. On my last day, I drove up the winding road leading to the top of Mount Lemmon, the highest point in the Santa Catalina Mountains, with a clear goal in mind: to catch a signature Southwest sunset. The drive up, while slow going, is fantastic. The views of the valley are wonderful, and it’s interesting to see the desert flora change as you get higher and higher (the omnipresent saguaros slowly disappear).  Finally, I reached Windy Point Lookout, and exited my car to the noticeably chillier (and yes, windier) weather. I hiked a few minutes out over the rocks until I’d found a quiet place with no other people in sight, just as the sun was beginning to disappear. Watching the prismatic canvas of blues and pinks slowly fade into dusk, the stereotype of “snowbirds” — people who spend their winters in Arizona — suddenly made perfect sense to me. The sandhill cranes really had it figured out. Lucas Peterson is the Frugal Traveler columnist. He has written for GQ, Lucky Peach, Eater, LA Weekly and Food Republic. His video series for Eater, "Dining on a Dime," is now in its 11th season.  @FrugalTraveler Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:21 P.M. E.D.T.
 TORONTO —  Peter Munk, a Canadian immigrant who founded Barrick Gold and turned it into the world's largest gold producer, died Wednesday. He was 90. His daughter Nina Munk said her father passed away at his Toronto home of natural causes. Munk founded Barrick in 1983 and built it into the world's largest gold mining company. Barrick now has 10,000 employees on five continents. He was also one of Canada's most significant philanthropists and donated nearly $300 million, including a $100 million donation last year to the Toronto General Hospital that is the largest single gift ever made to a Canadian hospital. Munk also created the Munk School of Global Affairs at the University of Toronto and founded the Munk debates, which brings the world's top intellectuals to Toronto for debates. Advertisement Munk was born in Budapest in 1927 and fled Hungary with his family in 1944 amid World War II. He arrived in Toronto with nothing but a small suitcase. Advertisement He started his first company while a student at the University of Toronto, employing students to sell Christmas trees outside supermarkets. He graduated with a degree in electrical engineering and then founded a successful stereo console business that gained endorsements from Frank Sinatra and Oscar Peterson. He also built a hotel empire in the South Pacific and developed a marina for super yachts after buying a port in Montenegro. But he said Barrick would be his legacy. In 1986, Barrick bought an underperforming mine in Nevada. Others didn't see the potential but Munk struck it big and it became one of the company's core mines, producing over a million ounces a year. Ten years later Barrick established itself as the world's biggest gold producer after buying miner Placer Dome for $10.4 billion.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He was a great Canadian. He did much for our economy in many different ways, and left a large legacy," Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said in Parliament. Munk was named a Companion of the Order of Canada, the country's highest civilian honor in 2008. He was also among 18 global business leaders chosen to be included on the New York Stock Exchange Wall of Innovators last year. "Although he began his life in Canada with very little, Peter ends his stay on earth as a Canadian icon, admired and revered for his outstanding success in business and leadership that benefited this country in so many important ways," former Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said in a statement. Toronto Mayor John Tory said Munk was one of Toronto's most generous and accomplished residents. "Peter Munk was a business legend.  But more importantly, he was a legendary good citizen. With his wife Melanie, he donated millions to better education and health care for other Canadians," Tory said. Munk is survived by his wife of 45 years; children Anthony, Nina, Marc-David, Natalie and Cheyne; and 14 grandchildren. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MICHAEL KIMMELMANMARCH 28, 2018
 CHARLESTON, S.C. — The unmarked property, beside a big, bland postwar apartment building, is now an empty grass lot and de facto park. Cabin cruisers gently bob at a pier. In this part of Charleston, just north of the historic, postcard district, industry has increasingly been giving way to boxy condominium developments with names like The Gadsden, after this city’s Revolutionary War-era patriot, merchant, and sometime slave trader, Christopher Gadsden. Justice delayed, as the saying goes. If it’s to be served, that empty plot, still waiting on private donations and $11 million in state funding, will be occupied by a subdued, modernist, 47,000-square-foot pavilion raised above the ground on thick columns clad in precast oyster-shell tabby. It will house the International African American Museum. A graceful project, long discussed and years overdue, the museum has brought together two very different talents, the veteran architect Harry Cobb, from Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, and Walter Hood, the landscape designer from Oakland, Calif. Advertisement Its louvered windows facing the waterfront will direct views past Fort Sumter toward the Atlantic Ocean — and Africa. In and around the plaza created below the lofted building, a memorial garden, planted with native grasses, will lead toward a shallow tidal pool whose stone floor is inscribed with the shapes of bodies crammed together, as slaves were, in the bowels of ships that landed here. Advertisement Right here. The spot used to be Gadsden’s Wharf. Historians estimate nearly half of all African slaves brought to America arrived in Charleston, most of them at Gadsden’s Wharf. At 840-feet-long, it was, two centuries ago, the largest wharf in America. Thousands of Africans waited in the wharf’s warehouses to be auctioned off. In what has become a parking lot, just inland, 700 of them froze to death. For millions of African-Americans today, the site is “ground zero,” as the Harvard scholar Henry Louis Gates, Jr., has put it, for “blackness, black culture, the African experience, the African-American experience, slavery — however you want to slice it.” Every era erects, removes, amends — or ignores — monuments. Monuments and historical museums are always mirrors, advertisements, time bombs. Hardly a street or building in Germany today lacks some sign or plaque, redressing the past. It was the proposed removal of a Jim Crow-era statue of Robert E. Lee that became the excuse for the neo-Nazi rally in Charlottesville, Va., last year, where a white nationalist is to go on trial late this year in the murder of a protester at the event. Unlike Virginia, South Carolina hasn’t taken down Confederate monuments. Much has changed here but much has not. The state’s most recent proposal for social studies standards in public schools doesn’t mention the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., or Rosa Parks. The Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston where a young white man massacred nine black congregants in 2015 is virtually in the shadow of what’s still the city’s tallest monument (another Jim Crow relic) of the antebellum vice president and proud white supremacist John C. Calhoun. It has been nearly two decades since Joseph P. Riley Jr., Charleston’s mayor at the time, floated the idea of a museum of African-American culture and history, on a different site, nearby. A dozen years passed, then more. Mr. Riley retired in 2016, after 40 years in office, having been elected during the 1970s as a racial bridge builder. White racists called him “L’il Black Joe” when he appointed a black police chief in 1975. Charleston prospered over the intervening decades. Advertisement But gentrification had its effects. Two-thirds black in the early 1980s, the population has become 70 percent white. I suggested to Mr. Riley the other day that Charleston can come across to a visitor as Disneyland for the Confederacy, still enthralled by its era of slavery, with a monument on seemingly every downtown corner commemorating some Confederate soldier, plantation aristocrat or antebellum judge who opposed Lincoln. “It’s a process,” he replied. “We worked hard while I was mayor to avoid alienation, to make this a city where everyone feels welcome. When I was in school, they didn’t teach us about slavery. I really only learned the truth about how slaves were treated when I had already been in office for many years. That’s when I began to think seriously about the museum.” But without enough money or much public enthusiasm, the plan sputtered. Then excavations turned up traces of Gadsden’s Wharf in the muck beneath the grassy lot. Through the exhibition designer Ralph Appelbaum, Mr. Riley reached out to Mr. Cobb. Pretty much the architect’s first question: Why not build on the location of the wharf? By that point, the city had sold the property to a local restaurateur, unaware of its history. Mr. Riley spent a tidy sum buying the land back. “Sometimes you quick-cook something, it’s a mistake,” rationalized the former mayor, who has taken to calling the museum his “most important work,” especially after the church murders. “It turned out to be good that we had a lengthy germination period.” Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Now 91, the soft-spoken Mr. Cobb is known for designing the John Hancock Tower in Boston, 7 Bryant Park in New York, and a variety of big, sleek buildings in between, the best of which are geometrically eloquent and deceptively simple. Working here with the structural engineer Guy Nordenson, he describes this project as an “unrhetorical work of architecture.” But that’s not quite true. On the edge of the cobblestoned tourist area, with its ornate Gothic Revival-style churches and Queen Anne houses, the museum’s plain-spoken modernism comes across as almost whisperingly defiant, a turning of the page, promising a deliverance from history, modernism’s originating goal. Moody Nolan are the architects of record. Slender brick cladding underscores the pavilion’s long horizontal spans and extended cantilevers on either end. Pointed columns are meant to make the structure’s mass appear to float. Perching the museum on piers will take account of rising waters. But it’s also hard not to see an allusion to a wharf. Advertisement Inside, galleries will document the many diverse cultures Africans brought to America, and a family center will let visitors trace their roots to Gadsden’s Wharf. For his part, Mr. Hood has reimagined a constrained and narrow property, about a football-field long. The late, great Brazilian architect Oscar Niemeyer was an inspiration. Mr. Hood creates a shaded public plaza, in the breezy space underneath the raised structure, where people may congregate around the building’s double-sided staircase, so the museum can become a gathering spot, not just a pilgrimage site. The memorial garden and tidal pool, at the same time, insure that it’s recognized as hallowed ground, a place for contemplation. The budget for building the museum is $75 million. The goal is for bulldozers to start digging later this year and for construction to finish in 2020. But there’s a hitch. No shovel will be lifted until all the money is raised. Charleston has committed its $25 million share, along with the land, and private donations are approaching the $25 million goal. But the South Carolina legislature, after an understanding that it would contribute $25 million over five years, allocated $14 million, and now won’t promise the remaining $11 million. The clock is ticking. The current legislature remains in session only until the end of May. State Representative Brian White, a Republican who heads South Carolina’s House Ways and Means Committee, is one of those holding the money back. The museum “is not a state project and we have a lot of state needs right now that far outweigh a municipality’s request,” he recently told the Greenville News, citing competing priorities like education. Bobby Hitt, South Carolina’s commerce secretary, by contrast, has pointed out that the museum will help attract businesses to the state. It adds a work of architectural dignity. And as for educational value, plainly it fills a gap. “This ain’t a black project,” as Bakari Sellers, a former Democrat in the state legislature, put it to the Greenville News. “This ain’t a Charleston project. This is an American project.” Advertisement Or as James Baldwin said, “If you know whence you came, there are absolutely no limitations to where you can go.” One recent morning I toured the site with Mr. Hood and Michael Boulware Moore, the museum’s president, then we looked out over the harbor. Mr. Moore said his ancestors were among the slaves who arrived in shackles at Gadsden’s Wharf. His great-great grandfather was Robert Smalls, who commandeered a Confederate ship, turning it over to Union forces and winning freedom for himself, his family and his crew. Smalls became a crusading state legislator and United States congressman during Reconstruction. He brought free public education to South Carolina. A plaque honoring Smalls was installed on a squat little pillar downtown not long ago. Mr. Moore showed me a picture of it. Think, the Stonehenge set from “Spinal Tap.” The memorial looks tiny, and is periodically obscured by bushes. Not far away, a big statue on a huge round pedestal, at the tip of the battery facing Fort Sumter, honors the Confederate Defenders of Charleston. Symbols matter. The past is present. The museum would clearly be good for more than just business. An earlier version of this article imprecisely referred to the status of a statue of Robert E. Lee. There has been a proposal to remove it; it has not yet been taken down. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: In Charleston, A Museum Long Past Due.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JESSE McKINLEYMARCH 28, 2018
 ALBANY  — Amid discussions of a $168 billion budget, a range of potentially sweeping new state policies, and a wild coyote seen near the Capitol, it took the arrest of a reporter to prompt Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to meet the Albany press corps. The reporter, Kenneth Lovett of The Daily News, was taken into custody on Wednesday by State Police troopers after a dispute over the use of his cellphone near the Senate chambers, where such use is restricted. 
            I don’t have any context, but it’s weird to see a reporter being taken out in handcuffs. @klnynews pic.twitter.com/9cvo2tVpS0  Photographs and video of Mr. Lovett in handcuffs were soon bouncing around the internet, provoking bewilderment among fellow reporters, and a chuckle from Mr. Lovett himself, who posted on Twitter soon after his arrest that he had received teasing calls of support from members of the Cuomo administration’s senior staff. Enter the governor. Mr. Cuomo, who has practically made a second career of flying to disaster areas and aiding stranded vehicles, headed to a police station adjacent to the Capitol to apparently plead for Mr. Lovett’s release, winning it quickly. And then he emerged to a barrage of questions from the Capitol’s reporters, who had not seen the governor since before the conviction of Joseph Percoco, one of his closest friends and aides, of federal corruption charges on March 13. Advertisement And so it was that Mr. Cuomo — amid the nearby clamor of a free band concert and a profane, screaming constituent — gave an update on the budget. He pressed again for more money for the New York City Housing Authority, another front in his seemingly endless political war with Mayor Bill de Blasio. And he stressed that he wanted more money for the city’s subways from the city itself, but said he would not support a reported request for assistance for a struggling upstate casino. The diversion from the daily grind was probably welcomed by Mr. Cuomo, who has been ensconced behind closed doors since Sunday as the negotiations over the budget have continued to drag on. Lawmakers had returned to the Capitol over the weekend, hopeful of a possible deal in advance of the April 1 deadline, which coincides with Easter. Advertisement Mr. Cuomo, a second-term Democrat, did answer a few questions about Mr. Percoco, who had spent 68 days making hundreds of phone calls in the governor’s executive offices during 2014 when he was serving as a campaign manager, and not a state employee, according to evidence admitted at his trial. On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo said he knew that was a violation of state law barring use of state resources, but insisted that he was “not aware of him violating any rules or using any equipment for nongovernment purposes.” Mr. Cuomo has previously called Mr. Percoco’s presence in the office as campaign manager — over nearly eight months, before he returned to the governor’s office — “transition work,” and he stuck to his explanation on Wednesday. “Coming back and forth, to be part of a transition, and help, that is fine,” he said. All in all, however, Mr. Cuomo seemed more happy making wisecracks about other legal matters, namely his services on a reporter’s behalf. “I didn’t earn a big fee today,” Mr. Cuomo said, adding, “It does my heart good to say I freed Ken Lovett.” 
            Here's video of the coyote release today. It’s estimated NY has approx 14,500 breeding pairs of coyotes in New York, & not uncommon to see them in suburban and urban areas. Please enjoy viewing wildlife from a distance and never approach a coyote. https://t.co/UgzzK4twft pic.twitter.com/5kS8KYv7c9  Such distractions are thirsted for, of course, by many in the Capitol during the budget process, an always laborious process marked by late nights and severe cases of cabin fever. On Tuesday, that distraction took the form of a coyote found sleeping on a roof of the nearby state museum. The animal was tranquilized and later let loose in the wild; Mr. Lovett simply  returned to work. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: We Interrupt These Budget Talks for an Arrest.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Trilobites  By                     
 NICHOLAS ST. FLEUR
 
MARCH 28, 2018
 Big feet. Little feet. A heel here. A toe there. Stamped across the shoreline of Calvert Island, British Columbia, are 13,000-year-old human footprints that archaeologists believe to be the earliest found so far in North America. The finding, which was published Wednesday in the journal PLOS One, adds support to the idea that some ancient humans from Asia ventured into North America by hugging the Pacific coastline, rather than by traveling through the interior. “This provides evidence that people were inhabiting the region at the end of the last ice age,” said Duncan McLaren, an anthropologist at the Hakai Institute and University of Victoria in British Columbia and lead author of the study. “It is possible that the coast was one of the means by which people entered the Americas at that time.” Dr. McLaren and his colleagues stumbled upon the footprints while digging for sediments beneath Calvert Island’s beach sands. Today, the area is covered with thick bogs and dense forests that the team, which included representatives from the Heiltsuk First Nation and Wuikinuxv First Nation, could only access by boat. Advertisement At the close of the last ice age, from 11,000 to 14,000 years ago, the sea level was six to ten feet lower. The footprints were most likely left in an area that was just above the high tide line. Advertisement “As this island would only have been accessible by watercraft 13,000 years ago,” Dr. McLaren said, “it implies that the people who left the footprints were seafarers who used boats to get around, gather and hunt for food and live and explore the islands.” Every week, we’ll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. They found their first footprint in 2014. While digging about two feet beneath the surface in a 20-square-inch hole, they saw an impression of something foot-shaped in the light brown clay. In 2015 and 2016, they returned and expanded the muddy pit. They discovered several more steps preserved in the sediment. The prints were of different sizes and pointed in different directions. Most were right feet. When the team was finished they had counted 29 in total, possibly belonging to two adults and a child. Each was barefoot. The researchers think that after the people left their footprints on the clay, their impressions were filled in by sand, thick gravel and then another layer of clay, which may have preserved them. Using radiocarbon dating on sediment from the base of some footprint impressions, as well as two pieces of preserved wood found in the first footprint, Dr. McLaren and his team found them to be 13,000 years old. That would make them the oldest preserved human footprints in North America. “It’s not only the footprints themselves that are spectacular and so rare in archaeological context, but also the age of the site,” said Michael Petraglia, an archaeologist from the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Germany who edited the paper for PLOS One but was not involved in the work. “It suggests an early entrance into the Americas.” Dr. Petraglia said the footprints also provided strong evidence for the coastal movement hypothesis and he added that they may have traveled the so-called “Kelp Highway,” a hypothesis that underwater kelp forests supported ecosystems down the North Pacific coast that helped ancient seafaring people hunt, develop and migrate. “The work is important because it shows the ‘real’ people, not just artifacts or skeletal remains,” said Steve Webb, a biological archaeologist at Bond University in Australia. “However, the footprints are limited in number and don’t shed light on activities or movement that tell us very much.” Advertisement He added that future hunts for footprints should keep in mind that not everyone from this time period walked around barefoot. If anthropologists are too busy searching for soles, toes and arches, they might miss clues from those who wore animal skin shoes. Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Pre-Nike Era: Finding Footprints 13,000 Years Old.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By A. O. SCOTTMARCH 28, 2018
 I’m not generally one for nostalgia, but I do regret the loss of a certain kind of craziness that used to flourish in movies — the kind that is on rich and ripe display in “The Great Silence,” a 1968 Italian western by Sergio Corbucci that is only now receiving a proper theatrical release in this country. There is something about the film’s brazen mixing of incompatible elements that defies categorization, imitation or even sober critical assessment. It’s anarchic and rigorous, sophisticated and goofy, heartfelt and cynical. The score, by Ennio Morricone, is as mellow as wine. The action is raw, nasty and blood-soaked. The story is preposterous, the politics sincere. In 2018, it’s possible — and perhaps inevitable — to view “The Great Silence” as a footnote to the oeuvre of Quentin Tarantino, whose admiration for Corbucci is well documented. Corbucci’s 1966 western “Django” was an inspiration for Mr. Tarantino’s “Django Unchained,” and “The Hateful Eight” shares a snowbound aesthetic and a gleeful commitment to cruelty with “The Great Silence.” The scholarly minded viewer can trace other connections and divergences as well — to classic American westerns and to the contemporaneous and better-known work of the spaghetti maestro Sergio Leone. A preview of the film. But this plate of pasta — bitter and pungent, nourishing and perhaps a bit nauseating — should be savored on its own. It takes place at the end of the 19th century in “Snow Hill, Utah,” a place name that sounds infinitely more exotic in Italian. There, farmers have been driven off their land and forced into banditry, leaving them at the mercy of bounty killers, the most fearsome and sadistic of whom is played by Klaus Kinski. Advertisement His character — referred to as Tigrero aloud and Loco in the subtitles — is a whispering sociopath and a symbol of the Darwinian brutality that governs Snow Hill. The actual governor wants to bring the area under the rule of law, and dispatches a bumbling, decent sheriff (Frank Wolff) to bring Tigrero and the rest of the bounty killers into line. The lawman’s earnest efforts are a sideshow to the main drama, though, which pits Tigrero and his minions against a solitary avenger known as Silenzio. Advertisement Played by the great Jean-Louis Trintignant, Silenzio is a tragic, poetic variation on Clint Eastwood’s taciturn Man With No Name. Silenzio is not a man of few words, but a survivor of horrific violence. When he was a child, the bounty hunters who murdered his parents severed his vocal cords to keep him from talking. He has grown up into Tigrero’s double and opposite, meting out justice for money and following a strict code of ethics. He will never draw his gun first, but he will always shoot faster than his adversary. Silenzio’s services are solicited by Pauline (Vonetta McGee), the widow of one of Tigrero’s victims. The fact that she and her husband are black is at once a casual detail and a sign of the film’s anti-authoritarian, democratic ideology. The couple seems to have been welcomed by the other good people of Snow Hill, but their race is a big issue for the bad guys. The plot takes a twist or two, but serves mainly as a thread linking shootouts and glowering confrontations, with a brief respite for love. The mood is sometimes jaunty, but “The Great Silence” is no joke, and the fatalism of its ending serves as an implicit critique of the sentimental optimism of many Hollywood westerns. Power speaks louder than silence. 
Director
Sergio Corbucci  
Writers
Vittoriano Petrilli,                                 Mario Amendola,                                 Bruno Corbucci,                                 Sergio Corbucci  
Stars
Jean-Louis Trintignant,                                 Klaus Kinski,                                 Frank Wolff,                                 Vonetta McGee,                                 Luigi Pistilli  
Rating
Not Rated
 
Running Time
1h 45m
 
Genre
Western  The Great SilenceNot rated. In Italian and English, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. But our primary goal is that this feature adds value to your reading experience. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JAVIER C. HERNÁNDEZMARCH 28, 2018
 MARCH 28, 2018
 BEIJING — Kim Jong-un’s surprise visit to Beijing this week to meet President Xi Jinping added an element of intrigue to talks over North Korea’s nuclear program. It was also a propaganda opportunity for both men. For Mr. Xi, the meeting was a chance to cultivate an image as a peacemaker on the global stage. For Mr. Kim, it was an opportunity to signal membership in the club of world leaders. Here’s a look at how the Chinese and North Korean news media portrayed the meeting. MARCH 28, 2018
 In North Korea, Mr. Kim is often pictured alongside throngs of admirers who hang on and record his every word. But it was Mr. Kim who was taking notes during his meeting with Mr. Xi, at least in the Chinese news media coverage on Wednesday. Mr. Kim, 34, was shown scribbling on a piece of paper as Mr. Xi, 64, spoke of the need for close ties between their two countries. The images gave Mr. Xi the appearance of an elder statesman at a time when he has sought to expand China’s influence over global affairs. Advertisement Ryan Hass, a former director for China at the National Security Council who is now a fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said the coverage signaled that Beijing is “in control of a complex security challenge, serving as the center of international efforts to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula.” Advertisement While the Chinese news media published less flattering images of Mr. Kim, the North Korean media made sure he came across at home as charismatic, showing him smiling and offering a forceful handshake to Mr. Xi. The state-run media showed photos of Mr. Kim’s extensive motorcade as well as Mr. Xi appearing to offer a toast to Mr. Kim. Those images did not appear in the Chinese media. Mr. Kim, making his debut on the global stage, was most likely eager to show he was a respected figure who could hold his own with one of the world’s most powerful leaders. In North Korea he was depicted, without exception, as strong and in charge. Mao Zedong once said China and North Korea, longtime Communist allies, were as “close as lips and teeth.” But relations between the two countries have been strained in recent decades. However, there was no hint of that tension in the coverage of Mr. Kim’s visit this week. The Chinese and the North Korean news media portrayed the two countries as ideological comrades. Mr. Kim was welcomed in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, as a military band played. News reports said he and Mr. Xi watched an art performance together, joined by their wives.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Orville Schell, director of the Center on U.S.-China Relations at Asia Society in New York, described the pageantry as a “renaissance of the old socialist-style, big-leader rituals.” “They certainly didn’t just sneak him in the back door,” he said of Mr. Kim. “It looked like he got pretty close to the full monty.” Advertisement Both men seemed eager to convey that they have a renewed commitment to working together, and a personal chemistry that will unite them. Mr. Xi showed considerable warmth toward Mr. Kim, smiling widely and offering affectionate embraces. Mr. Kim returned the fondness, waving enthusiastically as he departed. The budding alliance between the two leaders may put new pressure on President Trump, who is expected to meet with Mr. Kim in the coming weeks. While the location for a meeting has not yet been decided, some analysts say that Mr. Xi may be angling to have it in Beijing. “That would make Trump like the three-wheel bicycle,” Mr. Schell said. “He would have to go to Beijing again, and almost be the supplicant to these old allies that have patched up their marriage.” Follow Javier C. Hernández on Twitter: @HernandezJavier. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:53 A.M. E.D.T.
 LUCERNE, Switzerland —  Panama coach Hernan Dario Gomez was left apprehensive about his team's prospects at the World Cup in Russia after seeing them "stripped naked" in Tuesday's friendly against Switzerland. The fiery Colombian gave a frank assessment of Panama's performance in the 6-0 defeat, saying it had left him with doubts about their chances of putting on a dignified display on their World Cup debut in June and July. "The difference here was too much --- we were stripped naked, they exposed all our weaknesses." he said. "We are still a long way from European football." The Panama side which took the field in Switzerland included five players who ply their trade in Major League Soccer and one each based in Belgium, Romania, Chile, Colombia, Peru and Honduras. Advertisement Their opponents boasted five players from the Bundesliga, one from the English Premier League, one in Serie A and one in Ligue 1, plus one each based in Croatia, Switzerland and Turkey. Advertisement If it looked like a hopeless mismatch on paper, it turned out to be just that on the pitch and Gomez refused to pull any punches afterwards with his only consolation being that it did not happen on the World Cup stage. "It happened today against quicker, more technical, stronger opponents who were better than us in every sense," he said. Yet just a few months ago, the same group of players were being praised for securing a first ever World Cup appearance by finishing above the United States in the final stage of CONCACAF qualification. GOMEZ CONFUSED Their previous two outings against European opposition had gone relatively well with a 1-1 draw against Wales in November and a 1-0 defeat to Denmark last Thursday, with their inconsistency leaving Gomez confused.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Are we the team that played Denmark or are we the team that played Switzerland?" he asked. "I don't know why there was such a big change. We have to have a long hard look." Before the game, Gomez had spoken proudly of Panama'a achievement in qualifying for the World Cup but admitted he had not expected it to happen so quickly in a country where football lags behind baseball and basketball in popularity. "It's a young football country and we qualified before our time," he said. "Panama doesn't have a (Lionel) Messi, we don't have a Neymar, we don't have a Cristiano Ronaldo." Gomez said that the MLS players were not at their peak after the winter break, but added that was no excuse. Advertisement The Canal Men face Belgium, England and Tunisia in their World Cup group and Gomez said they needed to work hard to make sure there was no repeat in front of a worldwide audience. "Each player has to go back to their team and work on their physical condition," he said. "The Swiss were stronger than us and we had no answer. "We have made a dream come true by reaching the World Cup but we still have to do well when we get there.... We have to look at what we can do to avoid this happening (in Russia)." (Editing by John O'Brien) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:57 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  But for a contentious late VAR decision, England manager Gareth Southgate would have been planning his next World Cup steps on the tail of back-to-back wins over two major footballing powers, draws against two more and a run of six successive clean sheets. Lorenzo Insigne's penalty to earn Italy a 1-1 draw at Wembley skewed those stats, but not the underlying theme - namely that England are proving adept at keeping teams out, though still struggle with their own penetration. The Italy draw, along with a 1-0 win in the Netherlands and goalless draws with Germany and Brazil, showed that, in friendly situations at least, England can still parade themselves among the big guns of the international game. However, the acid test comes in Russia in three months, where their woeful displays in recent tournaments will suddenly become the more relevant touchstone. Advertisement Southgate is realistic enough to not invest too much hope on the back of friendlies but he will at least be finalising his World Cup squad from a position, if not of comfort, then at least not panic. Advertisement With only two more friendlies against Nigeria and Costa Rica to come in June, he will already have a firm idea of the bulk of his squad. Also, with such a small pool of top level English talent performing in the Premier League, his options are limited anyway. His bigger issue is his likely starting XI, which looks anything but settled, though in terms of shape he does seem to have opted for a five-man defence, featuring wing backs. Ironically, given that Tuesday's penalty was the first goal England have conceded in more than 10 hours of play, his defensive lineup for the opening World Cup game against Tunisia remains anyone's guess.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. John Stones is assured of his place but any two from five could be played alongside him. On Tuesday it was debutant James Tarkowski and wing back Kyle Walker but Harry Maguire, Joe Gomez and Alfie Mawson are also options, if inexperienced ones. The manager also has to make a decision about his goalkeeper, where he runs the risk of repeating the fatal error of several of his predecessors in showing loyalty to a long-serving but past-his-best stalwart, in this case Joe Hart. ATTACKING THREAT The only real attacking certainties in the team and the only players likely to strike fear into top-class opposition are Harry Kane, who missed the Dutch and Italy games through injury, and Raheem Sterling, man of the match on Tuesday. Jamie Vardy, on target against Italy, will also carry a goal threat. Sterling's incisive running combined with his improved strength and better finishing make him a real weapon but Southgate has to find a way to get the best from him and also work out how he combines with the other classy attacking midfielder, Dele Alli. With the rest of his midfield options looking a little so-so, England's best chance of beating any of the major teams in Russia is probably to develop further into a counter-attacking team, using the pace of their wing backs. That approach is unlikely to be called upon in the group stage against Panama, beaten 6-0 by Switzerland on Tuesday, or Tunisia. However, it might pay dividends against Belgium should Southgate's side find themselves needing to take some risks in their final group game. Advertisement (Reporting by Mitch Phillips, editing by Christian Radnedge) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:29 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN FRANCISCO —  To Wall Street money managers who make bets for a living, U.S. President Donald Trump's aggressive stance against China on trade looks like a high-stakes poker hand - but they believe  they can play it for all it's worth. Fears that Trump could set off a trade conflict have roiled Wall Street since March 1, when the president announced plans to impose tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, risking retaliation from major trade partners like China, Europe and neighboring Canada. It's been a roller coaster ride, with markets slumping after Trump last Friday moved to impose up to $60 billion in tariffs on some Chinese imports and China declared plans to retaliate with duties of up to $3 billion of U.S. imports even as it urged the United States to "pull back from the brink." China's willingness to negotiate spurred a rebound on Monday, though jitters in the tech sector drove markets back down on Tuesday. Advertisement Investors remain concerned about a trade war between the world's two largest economies, but some big players are sanguine about their prospects to make money even as they try and dissect Trump's strategy on trade. Advertisement The former celebrity businessman on March 2 tweeted, "trade wars are good, and easy to win," shocking economists who cite evidence that trade wars in the past have been destructive to economies involved. "Other administrations have gone to trading partners like China and asked for a fairer deal, only to get a cigar put out on their forehead," said Steve Chiavarone, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors. "I suspect Trump's bucking of norms is absolutely part of his negotiating tactics." Chiavarone and others said they remain confident the S&P 500 will rise significantly this year. "So far you are talking about small amounts of tariffs in niche sectors," said Phil Blancato, head of Ladenburg Thalmann Asset Management in New York. "For anyone who is looking for an opportunity to enter the market here at better valuations, this is it."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. THE ART OF THE DEAL "He has shown himself to act aggressively, quickly and unilaterally, and that's brought China to the negotiating table," said Ben Phillips, chief investment officer of  EventShares exchange traded funds. "I truly think they are worried about him taking unilateral action and harming China's economy." Fears of a trade war, which could hurt U.S. multinationals and dull the benefits of deep corporate tax cuts enacted this year, have helped push the S&P 500 down nearly 4 percent since the end of February. The Trump administration has demanded that China immediately cut its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States by $100 billion, a position seen by some as an opening tactic in a long negotiation. China could respond to U.S. measures with a range of tariffs aimed at U.S. multinationals, or even farmers in rural regions who helped Trump win the 2016 presidential election. Trump's bellicose stance with U.S. trade partners reflects a negotiating style outlined in his 1987 book, "Trump: The Art of the Deal," said Oliver Pursche, chief market strategist at Bruderman Asset Management in New York. "You propose something horrific, and then when you pull back what you want is not as painful as feared," Pursche said. "The problem is the other side isn't dumb. Eventually, they're going to figure that out." Advertisement (Reporting by Noel Randewich, additional reporting by April Joyner and Trevor Hunnicutt in New York; Editing by Alden Bentley) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:18 A.M. E.D.T.
 EDMONTON, Alberta —  After Edmonton scored the first three goals of the game, the Columbus Blue Jackets made it apparent which team was still fighting for a playoff spot and which team was already out of the race. Thomas Vanek had three goals and an assist to lift the Blue Jackets over the Oilers 7-3 on Tuesday night. "We were down 3-0, but it didn't feel like it because it was just a couple of dumb mistakes that cost us," Vanek said. "We felt fine about our game going into the game and even being down 3-0 we felt OK. We showed a lot of character and it was a big two points again." Artemi Panarin, Boone Jenner, Cam Atkinson and Markus Nutivaara also scored for the Blue Jackets, who have won 11 of 12. Sergei Bobrovsky stopped 22 shots. Advertisement "We just kept pushing and at the end of the day we played a really good game, I think," said Columbus forward Alexander Wennberg, who ended the night with a plus-six rating. Advertisement Connor McDavid had a goal and two assists, and Ryan Nugent-Hopkins and Drake Caggiula also scored for the Oilers, who have lost two straight. Cam Talbot stopped 13 of 18 shots before being replaced by Laurent Brossoit. "It was awful, horrible," McDavid said of his team's collapse. "We had the good start (tonight) and then the game just went right back to where we were at during the start of the year. It's disappointing as we had been pretty good of late." Edmonton got on the board 3:37 into the first period when a mix-up behind the net between Bobrovsky and Nutivaara allowed McDavid to steal the puck and send it out front to Nugent-Hopkins for his 22nd of the season. McDavid picked up his 100th point, tying his league-leading total from last year.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Linesman Steve Barton was stretchered off following a collision with McDavid in the first period. Columbus' Zach Werenski ran into McDavid and sent him flying into Barton, who hit his head hard on the ice. Sportsnet reported that Barton was taken to a hospital, where he was able to speak with doctors and move all extremities. McDavid scored a short-handed goal later in the period, his career-high 40th of the season. He's the first Oilers player to hit the mark since Petr Klima did it in 1991. Edmonton made it 3-0 on the power play midway through the first when Caggiula blasted a puck top corner past Bobrovsky. Columbus came roaring back with a pair of goals within a minute, as Vanek's shot caromed off a defender and past Talbot, and then Panarin scored his 26th on a rebound. Vanek tipped in his 23rd of the season off a shot by David Savard with 3:20 left. Jenner put Columbus ahead with a goal 1:38 into the second, and Atkinson and Vanek followed to make it a blowout. Nutivaara piled on with a goal in the third. UP NEXT Blue Jackets: Play at Calgary on Thursday night. Oilers: Play at Vancouver on Thursday night. ___ Advertisement More AP hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By PATRICK KINGSLEYMARCH 27, 2018
 BUDAPEST — Billboards. TV campaigns. Radio programs. The anti-immigrant government of Prime Minister Viktor Orban uses different levers to influence public opinion, particularly on the subject of the European refugee crisis. Even school textbooks. On Page 155 of the latest eighth-grade history textbook, students are told that Mr. Orban thinks refugees are a threat to Hungary — and then encouraged to believe he is right. “It can be problematic,” the book concludes, “for different cultures to coexist.” It is a testament to the scope of Mr. Orban’s program for remaking Hungary that part of the far-right leader’s message is now woven into the school curriculum. For the past eight years, Mr. Orban has waged a systemic assault on the hardware of Hungary’s democracy — rewriting the national Constitution, reshaping the judiciary and tweaking the electoral system to favor his Fidesz party. Less conspicuously, Mr. Orban is also trying to recode the software of Hungary’s democracy — its cultural sphere, civil society and education system. Advertisement His party’s appointees or supporters dominate many artistic institutions and universities. A growing number of plays and exhibitions have had nationalist or anti-Western undertones. Religious groups and nongovernment organizations critical of Fidesz have seen funding dry up. He has especially vilified pro-democracy organizations funded by the Hungarian-American philanthropist George Soros. Advertisement National opinion surveys are used to steer public opinion as much as collect it, while history is also up for grabs. The government has jousted with educators over textbooks while promoting a narrative of Hungarian victimhood and ethnocentrism. “The government’s goal,” said Laszlo Miklosi, president of the Association of Hungarian History Teachers, “is to create a version of history preferable to Orban.” With Hungary holding a general election on April 8, Mr. Orban is expected to win easily, enhancing his status as a leading figure in the global far right. For many pro-democracy Westerners, Mr. Orban’s efforts to build an “illiberal democracy” inside the European Union is chilling. Among many far-right populists on both sides of the Atlantic, he is revered. “He’s a hero,” Stephen K. Bannon, President Trump’s former strategist, said this month while touring Europe. He described Mr. Orban as “the most significant guy on the scene right now.” That scene, some say, is the unraveling of democracy. In a report issued in March, a German research group, Bertelsmann Stiftung, said Hungary was “nearing” the threshold of autocracy. In Budapest, government officials describe their societal revamp as a mainly technocratic reform effort, rather than an ideological campaign, one validated by Mr. Orban’s success at the ballot box. “The government is using its democratic legitimacy not only to reform the state but to reform the society,” said Professor Andras Patyi, the head of a new university formed by Fidesz to train the public officials of the future. He said the current president of France, Emmanuel Macron, was doing the same thing. “This is common in democratic societies,” he said. Advertisement But Mr. Orban has recognized the political power to be gained by harnessing culture, history and civil society. He usually spends Thursdays reading books, essays and polling data, while meeting with writers and thinkers, two of his longtime associates said. The goal is not pleasure but power, said Zoltan Illes, a former Fidesz minister. “He wants to see what the new developments are and adapt them to his politics, to increase the life span of his governance,” Mr. Illes said. Authors with a sweeping vision of human nature and society seem to fascinate him. Last April, for example, he met with Philip Zimbardo, the psychologist who created the Stanford Prison Experiment, the 1971 study of authoritarianism, which explored how ordinary people would respond when placed in positions of power. The two men spent more than two hours talking alone in Mr. Orban’s office, surrounded by paintings of Hungarian history. Mr. Orban seemed uninterested in the Stanford experiment, Mr. Zimbardo said, but was keen to understand his theory about how to energize frustrated young men who feel left behind by modern society. “I was giving him ideas,” said Professor Zimbardo, who disagrees with Mr. Orban’s politics, “about how psychology plays a central role in our lives.” This month, tens of thousands of people marched in Budapest to cheer a speech by the prime minister in a political rally to help Fidesz win re-election. Except the organizer was not Fidesz but a civilian named Laszlo Csizmadia — whose work embodies how Mr. Orban has tried to influence the civil arena through like-minded culture warriors. For the past eight years, Mr. Csizmadia has led a government institution called the National Cooperation Fund, the largest Hungarian fund for civil society organizations. The group does not provide a fully itemized list of its grants, but in 2012 the independent news website Atlatszo found that its biggest beneficiaries tended to be groups with religious and nationalist aims. Three of the top recipients were led by Fidesz politicians. Advertisement A right-wing theorist, Mr. Csizmadia has written widely that the duty of nongovernmental groups is to preserve national identity and uphold Christian values. Most tellingly, he argues that since an elected government represents the will of the people — and since civil society should strive to fulfill the people’s will — then civil society exists to carry out a ruling party’s manifesto. “Obviously, civil society needs to help and support the government to follow through with its promises,” Mr. Csizmadia said in an interview this month. “This is an incredibly important thing.” While channeling money toward its supporters, the government has simultaneously squeezed alternative sources of funding for NGOs that oppose its ideas. With few funding opportunities now available inside Hungary, human rights groups have become increasingly reliant on foreign money — in particular from the Norwegian government and the Open Society Foundation, a charity run by Mr. Soros. In response, the authorities raided some of the organizations that distributed Norwegian money, and accused several of the recipients — including the Hungarian Civil Liberties Union and the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, two of the country’s most prestigious watchdogs — of acting on behalf of foreign powers. The Orban government later forced rights groups receiving more than 24,000 euros (roughly $30,000) from foreign sources to register with the authorities, and led a smear campaign against Mr. Soros and the groups he finances. Over the winter, the government sent an opinion survey to every Hungarian household. The survey claimed Mr. Soros was leading a project — named the Soros Plan — to force Hungary to admit thousands of migrants, dismantle its border fences, and in the process “diminish the importance of the language and culture of European countries.” It was demonstrably false. During the 1980s, Mr. Orban was a young liberal activist who studied civil society at Oxford University (financed by a Soros grant). But by 2014, when he won a third term as prime minister, he had decisively pivoted. In a meeting that April with Zoltan Illes, then the minister for environmental protection, he lambasted nongovernmental groups as foreign-funded enemies of the state. “I would like,” Mr. Illes recalled Mr. Orban telling him, “to destroy all NGOs in this country.” In many Western countries, theater is an avocation for elites. Not in Hungary. In a country of just 9.8 million people, the government oversees 60 theaters that sold 6.7 million tickets in 2016. Advertisement “It matters what people see on the stage,” said Robert Alfoldi, the former director of Hungary’s National Theater, “and that’s why it’s important for the government.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. During the past eight years, Fidesz has appointed scores of theater directors across the country. Most are not political ideologues, but the new directors do little to prompt reflection about contemporary issues, said Andrea Tompa, the former head of the Hungarian Theatre Critics’ Association. “Most theaters,” she said, “have a socially unengaged message,” and a majority are overseen by directors appointed under Fidesz. Perhaps the most provocative appointment has been of Gyorgy Dorner, a far-right director who now runs a theater in Budapest. In his 2011 application for the job, Mr. Dorner vowed that the theater, the Uj Szinhaz, would become “a repository for Hungarian values” and attract an audience of “Hungarian people who share the idea of the nation state.” Hungary, he said, had been “suffering under the social-liberal yoke.” The Uj Szinhaz now performs only Hungarian plays, and holds an annual festival devoted to Christian theater. “It’s important for us to emphasize our identity because we could lose it in a few moments,” Mr. Dorner said in an interview, citing anxiety about immigration by “the Africans, the Middle Easterners.” Another director, Mr. Alfoldi, has gotten a much cooler reception from the government. Mr. Alfoldi was appointed as director of Hungary’s National Theater while Mr. Orban was out of office, and was vilified in conservative circles for his provocative productions, some of which encouraged a debate about Hungarian national narratives. At one point, he was summoned for questioning in Parliament. Then, when he applied to renew his contract in 2013, his application was rejected. The government has also turned its attention to other branches of the arts. In 2011, a small independent group of right-wing artists — led by Gyorgy Fekete, the husband of Mr. Orban’s former spokeswoman — was turned overnight into a state institution. Advertisement The Hungarian Academy of Arts was enshrined as a state entity in the Hungarian Constitution, given jurisdiction over several artistic institutions and awarded the right to distribute state-funded stipends and prize money to artists Mr. Fekete deemed as displaying a “clear national commitment.” Under Mr. Fekete, who retired late last year, the academy ignored and even condemned critics of Mr. Orban such as Gyorgy Konrad, a renowned author. Instead, it awarded monthly stipends in perpetuity to artists like Gyozo Somogyi, best known for depicting Hungarian military heroes, and Pal Ko, who has made a career from sculpting Hungarian historical figures. When the University of Debrecen awarded an honorary doctorate last August to Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president and an ally of Mr. Orban, four academic departments protested the decision. It was an act of free expression central to the principles of the European Union. Yet in response, the university leadership conducted an investigation into their dissent. Though Mr. Orban did not personally order the investigation, many academics saw it as a sign of how much influence the government and its appointees have exerted over university decision-making since he was elected. Under Fidesz, the finances of each university department have been placed under the control of a government-appointed chancellor. Officially, the loss of each department’s financial autonomy has been presented as a cost-saving measure. But for professors like Zoltan Fleck, who heads a law department at Hungary’s oldest college, Eotvos Lorand University, the real aim was to curb the academic autonomy of each department. No one tells Dr. Fleck what to think. But the only research funding available to his department is allocated directly by the Ministry of Justice. For a time, that money was restricted to research on family law. But while overall funding for universities dropped by 30 percent from 2010 to 2014, money was found to sustain two entirely new academic institutions. The first — Professor Patyi’s National University for Public Service — was set up to train civil servants, policemen and soldiers, leading skeptics to fear that Fidesz hoped to rear a generation of Fidesz-friendly bureaucrats. Mr. Patyi, who also heads the Hungarian electoral commission, denies that the college has any political association. Advertisement The second, a think tank called Veritas, has a more demonstrably political aim. Its main mission is to provide revisionist interpretations of 20th-century Hungarian history — including the reign of Miklos Horthy, the autocrat who led Hungary before and during the Second World War. Soon after Veritas was founded in 2014, its director, Sandor Szakaly, gave a sense of what this revision might involve. He described the deportation of Jews under Horthy in 1941 as a mere “police action against aliens.” This kind of revisionism has also entered the national curriculum. High school graduates can now be tested on the new preamble to the Hungarian Constitution — a text which implies that Hungarian nationality is exclusively Christian, even though Hungary has a substantial Jewish minority. Its wording also reduces the agency of Hungarian officials in the final year of World War II, when hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews were murdered. To exert greater influence over churches and synagogues themselves, Fidesz has stripped hundreds of religious institutions of their legal status, and scrapped their state funding. For the government, this was a legitimate reform of an abused subsidy system. But critics said it punished preachers who criticized Mr. Orban, while ensuring the loyalty of the 32 religious institutions that were allowed to keep their legal status. The Faith Church, a Pentecostal Christian group that still receives state funding, provided a telling recent example. The church was previously associated with the opposition. This month, its leader, Sandor Nemeth, told his congregants to vote for Mr. Orban. Jason Horowitz contributed reporting from Rome, and Palko Karasz from London. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: He Rewrites History, Restrains Society and Remolds a Democracy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 TALLAHASSEE, Fla. —  Florida State University has lifted its ban on alcohol and social functions by fraternities, sororities and student organizations, months after the death of a fraternity pledge at an off-campus party. Vice President of Student Affairs Amy Hecht said the lifting of the ban with four weeks to go in the university's spring semester gives everyone a chance to assess the new rules and what changes might need to still be made before the fall semester begins in late August. "The students have stepped up and shown responsible behavior over the past couple months. Now we'll see what happens over the next four weeks," Hecht said. "That gives the summer to refine things and have an even better system in place for the fall." Florida State President John Thrasher suspended all fraternities and sororities Nov. 6, three days after the death from alcohol poisoning of 20-year old Andrew Coffey. Fraternities and sororities were reinstated Jan. 29. Besides Coffey, other similar deaths occurred last year at Penn State, Louisiana State and Texas State. The other three also suspended Greek activities but have reinstated them. Advertisement The alcohol ban was officially lifted Monday via an email sent by Hecht to students. Under new rules announced in January, events must be registered through the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life. They also are required to have security present as well as using a third-party vendor for food and alcohol. Social events with alcohol are limited to four per chapter or organization during the fall semester and six in the spring, and include chapters taking risk management training. Advertisement Alan Levine, a member of Florida's Board of Governors, said during Wednesday's meeting in Jacksonville that he had reservations about Thrasher's initial steps but now has a greater understanding of what he did. "We're on the precipice of losing the Greek system if this type of hazing keeps happening," Thrasher said. "I want to save the Greek system. When you have four of these events happen nationwide in one year, it is significant."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Board of Governors student representative Kishane Patel, who attends the University of West Florida and also belongs to a fraternity, said during the meeting that he appreciated Thrasher working with the students, not against them, in devising the policy. The lifting of the ban also comes as Florida's State Attorney's office awaits responses on plea offers from the attorneys of the nine members of the suspended Pi Kappa Phi fraternity that have been charged with felony hazing. One offer would be to plead guilty to two counts of misdemeanor hazing with adjudication withheld along with 60 days in jail and two years of probation. The other would be to plead guilty to one count of felony hazing and 60 days in a county jail work camp. Both would include making an apology to Coffey's family. The state medical examiner said Coffey had a blood alcohol level of .447 at the time of the autopsy. Coffey drank a lethal amount of bourbon and malt liquor at the fraternity's "Big Brother Night" party, which was held at an off-campus home. All nine have entered not guilty pleas and are awaiting trial. They are also named in a civil suit filed by Coffey's family We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:45 A.M. E.D.T.
 VANCOUVER, British Columbia —  Vancouver coach Travis Green did a double take when he saw Alex Biega doing postgame TV interviews. Biega got his first goal in over three years, Brandon Sutter had two goals and an assist and the Canucks beat the Anaheim Ducks 4-1 on Tuesday night. "You don't see that a lot with the Bulldog being interviewed after his game-winner, so I had to get a picture of it," Green said about Biega with a smile. Biega, who last scored on Feb. 16, 2015, blasted a slap shot from the corner of the blue-line that cleared traffic and found the net, giving Vancouver a 2-1 lead three minutes into the third. Advertisement "The other (goal) was around the same spot, so I think I'm going to have to shoot pucks after practice around that spot," Biega said. Advertisement Sam Gagner also scored for Vancouver, which has won three of four since losing seven straight. Jacob Markstrom stopped 23 shots. Andrew Cogliano scored for the Ducks, who wrapped a four-game trip and are on a 5-1-1 stretch. The loss dropped Anaheim into a tie with the Los Angeles Kings for third in the Pacific Division, though the Kings have a game in hand. The teams play Friday night. "We've got probably two of the biggest games of the year coming up, L.A. on Friday night and Colorado on Sunday," coach Randy Carlyle said. "That pretty much sums it up, it's desperation time for everybody and we're going to have to play to a higher level than we did tonight." Anaheim's John Gibson made 26 saves. He has been dominant against Vancouver, coming into the game 6-1-1 with a 1.37 goals-against average and three shutouts against the Canucks.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Vancouver got to him at 9:53 in the opening period. Daniel Sedin's shot from the faceoff circle bounced off Gibson and right to Gagner, who batted in the rebound. Markstrom made two big saves in the second period. The first off a 3-on-2 with Ryan Getzlaf setting up Andrew Cogliano and the second on Corey Perry shooting from inside the slot. Markstrom later made a gaffe that lead to the Ducks' tying goal. The puck took an odd bounce off the stanchion during a dump-in, and Markstrom was caught stranded as Cogliano whipped the errant puck in. "If we win 4-1 and that is the goal that beat me I'll take that any day," Markstrom said. "It's frustrating when it happens, but if we win 4-1, I'll take that goal any day." Advertisement Sutter made it a two-goal lead when he burst out to a breakaway, hit the side of the net, then collected the puck and flipped it in over an out-of-position Gibson. Sutter added his second of the night into an empty net with 16 seconds left. NOTES: U.S. Olympian Troy Terry made his NHL debut for the Ducks. He played on a line with Ondrej Kase and Adam Henrique. ... Newly signed Canucks C Adam Gaudette did not dress and is expected to make his NHL debut Thursday against Edmonton. UP NEXT Ducks: Host Los Angeles on Friday night. Canucks: Host Edmonton on Thursday night. ___ More AP hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:30 P.M. E.D.T.
 CINCINNATI —  The 2018 baseball season already has its first rain delay. The Cincinnati Reds pushed back their opener against the Washington Nationals by a day because unrelenting rain is forecast for Thursday. The teams will open on Friday afternoon instead, taking advantage of what was a scheduled day It is the first time since 1966 that Cincinnati called off its opener because of the weather. The pitching matchups remain the same: NL Cy Young Award winner Max Scherzer (16-6) faces Homer Bailey (6-9), who is making his first opening day start for the Reds. The forecast calls for steady and sometimes heavy rain Thursday, meaning the game likely would have faced long delays if it could be played at all, Reds President Phil Castellini said. "Trust me, we do not cancel games here lightly," Castellini said. "No scenario in the forecast has it opening up at all to get in a game tomorrow without rain." Advertisement Before the game was rescheduled, it already had become a different sort of opener in Cincinnati, which by tradition gets to begin the season at home. Advertisement The city throws a big party complete with downtown parade on opening day, but that wasn't possible this year with Major League Baseball's opening date. The market association that organizes the festivities is busy with the upcoming Easter weekend and decided to wait until Monday, when the Reds host the Cubs, to hold the parade. Now, there won't even be a game in Cincinnati as the rest of the teams get underway. Dave Martinez will have to wait a day before his first game as Nationals manager. He takes over for Dusty Baker, who was fired after Washington failed to make it past the first round of the playoffs again last season. The Nationals lost to the Cubs in the Division Series, the second year in a row that they failed to get deeper into the postseason under Baker. "I'm just excited about standing out for the anthem and getting it started," Martinez said, before the Nationals arrived in the rainy city. "The boys are ready. I'm ready." Ready to wait. The Reds have rarely had to call off their season opener despite Cincinnati's notoriously fickle and unpredictable spring weather. They've played the game after snowfalls.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cincinnati hadn't called off an opener because of bad weather since 1966, when a series against the Mets was rained out and the Reds opened on the road at Philadelphia. John McSherry collapsed on the field after the seventh pitch of the 1996 opener and died. Ken Griffey Jr.'s debut with the Reds in 2000 was called as a 3-3 tie with one out in the top of the sixth because of rain. The Reds are coming off three straight last-place finishes as they continue their rebuild. Bailey is one of the few players left from the days when they were competing for NL Central titles. He's coming off three years of elbow and forearm problems, including Tommy John surgery. A year ago, he was recovering from surgery to remove bone spurs from is elbow. Now he gets to start the rain-delayed opener. "It beats having stiches in your arm," Bailey said. ROSTER COMPOSITION The Nationals decided to go with eight relievers for their opening roster while keeping one fewer position player on the bench. Advertisement "For me, it's about not beating up the bullpen early," Martinez said. "If you look at our lineup, there's not many guys you're going to pinch-hit for, so having an extra arm in the bullpen made sense to all of us." REDS' FINAL MOVES The Reds completed their roster Wednesday by selecting the contracts of infielder Phil Gosselin and right-hander Kevin Quackenbush — both non-roster invitees to spring training — and assigning right-hander Vance Worley to the minors. ___ AP Sports Writer Howard Fendrich in Washington contributed to this report. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:03 A.M. E.D.T.
 OTTAWA, Ontario —  One day after being eliminated from playoff contention for the second straight year, the reeling New York Islanders were glad to get another win. Andrew Ladd scored the tiebreaking goal late in the third period to lift the Islanders to a 4-3 victory over the Ottawa Senators on Tuesday night. Anders Lee, Anthony Beauvillier and Brock Nelson also scored to help New York get just its third win in 17 games (3-10-4). Jaroslav Halak stopped 33 shots. "As athletes we want to win, we hate losing so we want to compete, we want to go out there and work hard do the right thing," Beauvillier said. "It's about pride, it's about playing for us and it's about feeling good about ourselves." Advertisement Matt Duchene, Erik Karlsson and Bobby Ryan scored for Ottawa, which has lost six straight for the second time this season. Mike Condon finished with 27 saves. Advertisement "It's frustrating," said Duchene, who also had two assists. "I thought we were probably the better team start to finish. We had a lot of sustained pressure in their end, some really good scoring chances and Halak was good for them. It's frustrating, even though the points don't mean anything right now, you want to win games." Ryan tied the score 3-3 for Ottawa with 4:34 left after he sent a shot on goal and New York's Brandon Davidson deflected it into his own net. Ladd regained the lead for the Islanders with 2:03 remaining as he tipped Thomas Hickey's shot past Condon for his 11th of the season. "It was a little scrambly game, but we kept fighting and it was good to see (Ladd) get the winner," Islanders coach Doug Weight said. "We had to weather some storms. They put a lot of pucks on the net. They had some pretty good power play looks and we managed to hold on so it was good.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It was a good win." Trailing 2-1, the Islanders tied it in the game 1:23 into the second as Beauvillier beat Condon with Jordan Eberle in front to screen. The Senators had a number of chances to regain the lead as they outshot New York 13-7 in the middle period, but Halak made several big saves. Nelson gave the Islanders a 3-2 lead with 1:18 to go in the period as he fired a wrist shot past Condon for his 18th of the season. The Islanders opened the scoring on the power play 6:15 into the game as Lee, with his team-high 39th, backhanded John Tavares' rebound past Condon. Advertisement The Senators then scored twice to take the lead. Jean-Gabriel Pageau's shot went in off Duchene with 7:06 left in the first, and then Karlsson's ninth of the season put Ottawa in front less than two minutes later. Ottawa native Ben Sexton, who was recalled Sunday, played his second NHL game and first on home ice. His father, Randy, was the Senators' general manager from 1993-95. NOTES: Ottawa D Ben Harpur was a healthy scratch. ... Senators RW Mark Stone missed his ninth straight game with a leg injury, while Marian Gaborik missed his third straight game with an undisclosed injury. ... Davidson knocked a puck into his own goal for the second straight game. On Monday night in a 3-0 loss at home against Florida, the Panthers' Evgenii Dadonov sent a pass from the left side boards toward the net for a streaking Nick Bjugstad, but the puck deflected off Davidson's skate and past goalie Christopher Gibson. UP NEXT Islanders: Host Florida on Thursday night. Senators: Host Toronto on Friday night. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:54 P.M. E.D.T.
 RALEIGH, N.C. —  Duke's Marvin Bagley III, Arizona's Deandre Ayton and Oklahoma's Trae Young are certain high NBA draft picks, one of them could easily be the top overall selection. Still, that doesn't make any of them the best player in college basketball. That's a different question. Villanova's Jalen Brunson is a leading candidate to be anointed the national college player of the year. While several freshmen will likely hear their names called as one of the top-five draft picks, Brunson has been the man in college. And Brunson has NBA talent at the helm of a team playing in this weekend's Final Four in San Antonio, but recently there seems to be a disconnect between college production and NBA potential. Advertisement "I think it's hard for players to figure that out," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "Like, 'Hey, I'm one of the best players in college basketball, how can I not be a first-round draft pick?' There's just a big difference between what the NBA guys think they want to use draft picks for and who's the best player in college basketball." Advertisement For years, those two things seemed intertwined. Ten of the 19 different players named The Associated Press college player of the year between 1980-2000 — Virginia's Ralph Sampson won three times — became the No. 1 overall NBA draft pick, including Sampson, Georgetown's Patrick Ewing, Navy's David Robinson, LSU's Shaquille O'Neal and Wake Forest's Tim Duncan. But in the years since, only three players — Utah's Andrew Bogut in 2005, Oklahoma's Blake Griffin in 2009 and Kentucky's Anthony Davis in 2012 — have been AP player of the year and the No. 1 overall pick. Last year's AP winner, Frank Mason III of Kansas, was a second-round draft pick. This year's leading contenders include possible No. 1 draft picks in Ayton and Bagley, along with a potential top-10 pick in Young, while Brunson could be a second-rounder like Mason. The shorter college careers of top players can explain some of that change. Formerly, they routinely developed over three- and four-year stays that offered a clearer picture of player potential. Now, as top prospects stick around only a year or maybe two, that evaluation has changed. "There's less of an emphasis on college productivity," said ESPN analyst Dino Gaudio, Wake Forest's head coach from 2007-10. "Is it a factor? Sure it is, but it is less of a factor than what it was many years ago because of the one-and-done (rule) and how early kids can come out. "I think the word is projection. I think that's the biggest word." Brunson is still playing in the Final Four as the top-seeded Wildcats pursue a second national championship in three seasons. Bagley helped the Blue Devils reach the Elite Eight before losing in overtime to Kansas, while Ayton and Young both suffered first-round losses. The AP named its All-America team Tuesday, with Brunson and Kansas' Devonte' Graham joining Bagley, Ayton and Young on the first team. The AP names its player of the year Thursday in San Antonio.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ayton is an athletic 7-foot-1 freshman with power and a soft shooting touch, averaging 20.1 points and 11.6 rebounds. Arizona State coach Bobby Hurley said Ayton "may be the best big I've seen in college as a player or coach" — high praise considering Hurley played against O'Neal and Michigan's Chris Webber, and alongside Christian Laettner at Duke. Advertisement "He's a once-in-a-generation player," Arizona coach Sean Miller said. "I doubt if I'll coach anyone like him again." Bagley, a 6-11 forward, has the wingspan to score over defenders, rebound through traffic and step out to the arc, making him the Atlantic Coast Conference's leading scorer (21.1) and rebounder (11.5). The 6-2 Young led the country in scoring (27.4) and assists (8.7), including games of 48 points and a Division I record-tying 22 assists. "You're trying to develop as an individual, you're trying to win as many games as a team," Oklahoma coach Lon Kruger said. "If you can do all those things well, as Trae has done, you're going to position yourself well." Bagley announced Wednesday that he would enter the draft , joining Ayton and Young, who previously declared. And there are several other freshmen looking like potential lottery picks, including Mo Bamba from Texas and Missouri's Michael Porter Jr. (who was injured nearly all year) along with possible one-and-done guard Collin Sexton of Alabama. Meanwhile, there's Brunson, the steady 6-3 junior leading a team that spent a national-best eight weeks atop the Top 25. He averages 19.2 points and shoots 53 percent, though he lacks elite athleticism and isn't regarded as the best pro prospect on his team (that would be 6-7 junior Mikal Bridges). "So is Jalen Brunson the best player in college basketball?" Gaudio said. "For me, I think so. And I think he is a great college player. Will he be one of the top five picks in the draft? No, because it's so heavily weighted on how these guys can impact a team at the next level. And so much of that is related to athleticism, how high their ceiling is." ___ AP Basketball Writer John Marshall in Phoenix; and AP Sports Writers Cliff Brunt in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; and Dan Gelston in Philadelphia; contributed to this report. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events Advertisement ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By DAMIEN CAVEMARCH 28, 2018
 Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up. ______ I’m in rural Victoria this week reporting on immigration — part of our effort to explore Australia’s multicultural present and future — and I have to say, now I get why so many of you urged me to get out of the cities and into the country. This isn’t my first trip to regional Australia, and let’s put aside the “real Australia” argument; in my book, cities and towns are both reflections of national character. But just as dinner parties are different with six guests rather than 60, towns with a few hundred people do have a lot to teach about human interaction and how a country really works. Advertisement In my experience, towns of the singular — one market, one intersection — tend to produce a few things in abundance. Questions are among them. Visiting reporters rarely get too far without being asked about their plans, and within a day or so, word gets around. Advertisement If you’re deemed trustworthy, introductions are made, phone numbers are shared and people just appear to tell their stories. Pubs help. Here in Pyramid Hill, we arrived and dropped our bags in a couple of rooms at the Victoria Hotel around 3 p.m. on Monday. A few hours later, the local mayor stopped by for a chat and a beer on her way home from work. The local footy coach sat at the other end of the bar, beneath fading photos from decades past, and thanks to David Demaine, our friendly publican, I quickly discovered that the coach was married to the principal of the local public school, Pyramid Hill College. She appeared a few minutes later, not just at the pub, but at my table. No wonder writers love these kinds of towns. E.B. White, who inspired me as a child with “Charlotte’s Web” and again as a young reporter with his signature essay, “Here is New York,” lived on a farm in rural Maine for 48 years. Tim Winton, even as he promotes a new novel called “The Shepherd’s Hut,” still deliberately avoids telling anyone where he can be found in Western Australia to preserve the peace and quiet of his coastal community. And then there’s Gerald Murnane, the Australian literary savant who has landed in Goroke, a stretch of remote Victoria a few hours from where I am. Advertisement I’m half tempted to try to make the trip after reading this week’s fantastic profile of him in The New York Times Magazine. With minimal effort, I imagine I could find a way to fit in at the men’s shed where he and a bunch of other retirees spend a lot of time tinkering and talking. The shed reminded me a bit of the Op Shop here. (For the non-Aussies, that’s a vintage store, the “opportunity shop,” which sells donated goods, in this case to benefit the local nursing home.) I stopped in Tuesday afternoon and bought three antique port glasses from a couple of older volunteers who were mending dresses for some Filipino girls at the local Catholic school. Each glass cost me … go on, guess. Try 20 cents. The woman who sold them to me wrapped them carefully in gray paper to ensure they made it back to Sydney, and as we chatted about how the town was changing with the influx of Filipinos (more on that in a future story), I started to wonder what else I might buy. There was a big “for sale” sign out in front of the pub. My room was comfortable and clean. The place had good bones, solid wood floors, lots of space and decent water pressure. Would it be weird for The New York Times to buy into a piece of regional Australian life? Would it even be possible? Probably not. But in a place this friendly and quiet, it’s a ribbon of thought that keeps twirling. Now for the week’s reads … and a call for your recommendations about what to listen to, read or watch to better understand regional Australia. Advertisement Share your ideas in our Facebook group or by emailing nytaustralia@nytimes.com — and tell your friends to sign up for this newsletter and send their suggestions too! ______ Australians often ask me why Americans are so obsessed with guns, but what we’re witnessing now is a historic push in the other direction. Last Saturday, vast crowds of demonstrators gathered across the United States to protest gun violence. It was a triumph of organic, youthful grass-roots energy and sophisticated, experienced organizational muscle. In one poignant moment, Emma González, a survivor of last month’s shooting in Parkland, Fla., read the names of the victims before staring ahead for 4 minutes and 26 seconds to convey the length of the attack. You can see dispatches from our reporters on the ground and analysis of what this means for the future of gun policy in the U.S., here. ______ Who is Stormy Daniels? Read about her life and reputation — starting back when she was just Stephanie Clifford, a Floridian with ambition — before she took on her pornographic stage name, and long before she shook Washington with her claims to have had an affair with President Trump. Then read about how she’s out-Trumping Trump, according to our TV critic. ______ Lots of things are signs of status: cars, handbags, shoes, watches. And fish — the ones that get plastic surgery. “The idea of cosmetic surgery for a fish may sound extreme,” Amy Qin writes in her story from Singapore. “But the Asian arowana is not your average pet store fish. Known as the long yu, or ‘dragon fish’ in Chinese, it reigns as one of the world’s most expensive aquarium fish, selling for anywhere from a few hundred dollars to tens of thousands of dollars.” Advertisement ______ In-Depth • Is the Next Nobel Laureate in Literature Tending Bar in a Dusty Australian Town?: With the publication of two new books, Gerald Murnane might finally find an American audience. • Drilling the Great Australian Bight: Hoping for Jobs, but Fearing a Spill: A plan to extract natural gas in “Australia’s Galápagos” could bolster the economy, but the fishing and tourism industries say it’s not worth the risk. News • Scores of Russians Expelled by U.S. and Its Allies Over U.K. Poisoning: At least 22 other nations, including Australia and the U.S., backed Britain in expelling Russian officials. • Astonishing Admission of Cheating Rocks Australian Cricket: Senior players schemed to tamper with the ball during a series in South Africa, a revelation that has stunned a sport that prides itself on fair play. • A First in Flight: Australia to the U.K., in 17 Hours: Qantas calls its first direct, nonstop Dreamliner flight from Perth to London a “game changer.” • 150 Whales Beached in Australia, as Rescuers Fight to Save Them: Poor weather and the threat of sharks were hindering emergency efforts. For Fun • How Much Do You Know About New Zealand? A quiz for our country of the week (New Zealanders will obviously have the upper hand). • The 5 Most-Read ‘Modern Love’ Columns in Australia: You read them, we compiled them. Here are Australia’s favorite essays on love, in all its delightful and dark nuance. Advertisement • Welcome to the Neighborhood: After enduring the struggle to buy a home, a multicultural crowd of friends gathers for a Hindu celebration. ______ • All the President’s Thugs: Stormy Daniels said she was physically threatened after selling her story of a sexual liaison with Donald Trump. It rings all too true, writes the Times editorial board. • I Tried to Befriend Nikolas Cruz. He Still Killed My Friends: A student says the notion that the recent Parkland, Fla., shootings wouldn’t have occurred if students had been kinder is deeply dangerous. • Are You Really in Love if It’s Not on Instagram?: Why do people perform their relationships online? Who is it for? Krista Burton on #weekiversaries. • Sanctuaries of Silence: A virtual-reality video about discovering quiet in an ever-noisier world. ______ … And You Recommend? This week, as I prepare to write about Pyramid Hill and other small towns, I’m looking for suggestions: Share your favorite movies, songs, books, essays or photographs that go deep toward understanding rural, regional Australia. All suggestions, big or small, are welcome. As are stories and tales of your own. You know how to find me: nytaustralia@nytimes.com. Thank you! Damien Cave is the new Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He’s covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:06 P.M. E.D.T.
 TOKYO —  After six years of seclusion, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un seems to want to get out and see the world. Kim's surprise summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping this week was the first time he'd traveled outside of his country since he assumed power in 2011, according to his own state media. But Beijing is just the start of his ambitious coming out party. Next is a meeting just south of the Demilitarized Zone with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, then the trickiest meeting of all, with President Donald Trump in an as-yet undisclosed location. He is also rumored to be considering a sit-down with Russia's Vladimir Putin, while one of his staunchest critics, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, says he wants some face time, too. Why the sudden penchant for travel? A look at where Kim's been, where he might be headed and what kind of "souvenirs" he'll be hoping to gather along the way: ___ CHINA In hindsight, this was the obvious choice for Kim's international debut. Advertisement China is far and away the North's most important economic partner, and it has tightened its sanctions in recent months to increase the pressure on Kim to ease up with his nuclear weapons program. Kim has appeared less willing to toe Beijing's line, however, and relations between the two countries have suffered. Advertisement By suddenly showing up in China on Monday, he completely changed that narrative. It's not known yet what Kim and Xi discussed. Two things are clear. By hosting Kim before anyone else, Xi very effectively reasserted China's primary role in defusing tensions on the Korean Peninsula, which has long been a key national security concern for Beijing. For Kim, meeting with Xi first means he will go into his summits with Moon and Trump better informed and less isolated. More importantly for Kim, the visit could be a step toward persuading China to ease its sanctions, or at least how strictly they are enforced. ___ SOUTH KOREA The announcement that Kim and Moon would meet face to face was the first shocker of the year. Kim floated the idea by sending his invitation-bearing sister to the opening ceremony of the Pyeongchang Olympics last month. The meeting is planned for late April in a truce village inside the DMZ. Symbolically, it's a huge step forward. Moon and his liberal government have been taking the initiative to reach out to the North after a year of escalating missile launches and angry rhetorical barrages. Kim extended an olive branch of his own in January, vowing to make improved relations one of his top priorities for the year. Until Kim showed up in Beijing, it appeared Moon would be his first summit partner. While that somewhat blurs the focus on North-South detente, the emotional story line of Korean nationalism and the hope of reunification is still bound to play well with Kim's domestic audience. North Korea is working on several development projects that appear aimed at boosting South Korean tourism to its east coast. Advertisement Optimistic, yes. But it's worked for Pyongyang before. Kim's father, Kim Jong Il, played that card nicely in the previous inter-Korea summits, held in 2000 and 2007. ___ HAMBURGERS WITH TRUMP? This one still has a lot of question marks. Basic things, like when and where — and, some might add, if — it will take place have yet to be disclosed. Instead of announcing it themselves, the White House let a visiting delegation from South Korea inform the media that Trump had agreed to Kim's offer to meet "by May." Almost nothing official has been announced since. Trump tweeted Wednesday that he had received a message from Xi saying that Kim "looks forward to his meeting with me."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Now there is a good chance that Kim Jong Un will do what is right for his people and for humanity. Look forward to our meeting!" he tweeted. Lots of potential sites have popped up in the rumor mill, from Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida to Mongolia (which has good relations with Pyongyang) to an ancient castle in Sweden. In return for the chance to stand shoulder to shoulder as an equal with the leader of the Free World, Kim may release three Americans imprisoned by the North as a gesture of goodwill. But a big question remains over one very important word: "denuclearization." Kim has been using it a lot recently, and some officials in Washington have interpreted that to mean he might be willing to negotiate away his costly and hard-won nuclear arsenal. But another interpretation is that he means a process that would involve all 30,000-plus U.S. troops permanently withdrawing from the South and a slew of security guarantees culminating in a peace treaty to formally end the 1950-53 Korean War. That's what the North has been demanding for decades. ___ RUSSIA A meeting between Kim and Putin would seem to be a no-brainer. Advertisement Putin has been relatively friendly with Kim's regime and has actively tried to bolster ties, despite the international sanctions. The two countries recently signed an agreement on cooperation in scientific research and might be discussing a new border bridge. Russian media, meanwhile, are speculating that North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho is planning to travel to Moscow next month. Better relations with Moscow could benefit Kim tremendously. The fall of the Soviet Union was a major blow to the North — and a contributing factor behind a famine in the 1990s that is believed to have killed at least hundreds of thousands of North Koreans. Ties have never been the same since. But along with potential economic benefits, closer relations with Russia are important as a balance against Chinese influence and buffer against Washington and its allies. Putin is certainly wary of encouraging a nuclear-armed neighbor, cozying up with Kim would be a way of thumbing his nose at the West. And he does seem to like doing that. ___ JAPAN Tokyo is playing catch-up. Mired in a domestic corruption scandal and prone to follow Washington's lead, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has just recently suggested he, too, wants to get in some quality time with Kim. Japan has big problems with Pyongyang that go well beyond the nuclear issue. Kim Jong Il admitted in a summit in 2002 with then-Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi that its agents had abducted Japanese citizens in the 1970 and '80s. Several were returned, but Tokyo has since demanded more information and the dispute has become a bitter stalemate. Abe, a North Korea hawk, is worried that Japan's demands on the "abduction issue" will fall to the wayside if he is left out in the cold while Kim meets other leaders. The cost could be excessively high, however. In return for normalized relations, Pyongyang will likely demand that Japan pay more for the damage caused by its 1910-1945 colonization of the Korean Peninsula. Some experts have speculated the bill could run into the billions of dollars. ___ Talmadge is the AP's Pyongyang bureau chief. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram: @EricTalmadge We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:54 A.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Most Easter Sundays, you can find John Legend at home, helping cook a big dinner for family and friends. Except this Easter. He'll be a little busy — being Jesus Christ in front of millions. Legend leads a cast that includes Sara Bareilles and Alice Cooper in a live NBC version of the rock opera "Jesus Christ Superstar" by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice. It will be the latest addition to the prime-time lineup of live TV musical remakes that kicked off five years ago with "The Sound of Music" and includes "Peter Pan," ''Grease," ''The Wiz" and "Hairspray." While the shows often air at Christmas, this time it made sense for an Easter broadcast of the 47-year-old musical. "It's an iconic show. It's meant a lot to a lot of people for a long time," Legend said. "You want people who are fans of it already to be excited by our rendition. But then also we want to attract new people to the show, too." Advertisement The musical explores the caustic intersection of politics and showbiz, using a pulsating guitar- and organ-driven score that includes "I Don't Know How to Love Him," ''Everything's Alright" and "Superstar." Advertisement Live TV musicals have become progressively more complex, with the use of cars and multiple locations, sometimes outdoors. But "Jesus Christ Superstar" will be more stripped down, an attempt to capture a concert vibe. It will be staged inside an armory in Brooklyn with about 12 cameras. The actors will be augmented by a 32-piece band — including a mobile, all-woman string quartet — and 1,500 people will be in the audience, surrounding the action and interacting sometimes with the performers. The stage will be just 2 feet above a mosh pit. "I'm so excited that we have a live audience to work with and to feel the energy of in the room because I think, as someone who's a concert performer and now in the theater, that's the missing link so much of the time," said Bareilles, who plays Mary Magdalene. Director David Leveaux is promising this version of the musical to be "very unpackaged, not neat, quite raw." The rest of the cast includes Brandon Victor Dixon as Judas, Cooper as King Herod and Norm Lewis as Caiaphas. Costume designer Paul Tazewell, who dressed the "Hamilton" cast, has picked flowing tunics and modern, sexy silhouettes. Choreographer Camille A. Brown will mix traditional social dances with hip-hop, New Orleans-style second-line dancing and The Charleston.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Leveaux, who in a 2013 Broadway revival of "Romeo and Juliet" put Orlando Bloom on a motorcycle with a set that spit fire, will use real flames and pyrotechnics for "Superstar." He'll also employ some low-tech tricks, like a white scarf that can have multiple uses. "This is live. So you create ingredients that can combust because it's live," said Marc Platt, an executive producer. "In this instance, we have a live audience and an interactive concert, and live musicians — never done before. So we're not daunted by it. We welcome what's live and what's risky about it because that's what's exciting." Legend, who has won a Grammy, Tony and Oscar, knows he is just an Emmy away from winning the coveted EGOT, but he isn't planning that his portrayal of Jesus will add to his trophy haul. He made his acting debut in 2016's "La La Land." Advertisement "I have no presumptions about the idea that I'll be considered an award-winning actor in my second role as an actor," he said, laughing. "But I'm aware of the gap in my EGOT." The annual live broadcasts have gradually dipped in viewership, with the lowest being "A Christmas Story Live" last Christmas that attracted 4.5 million viewers — but they've become popular fodder for hate-tweeting. "It's part of it. You just kind of do the best you can," said executive producer Neil Meron, who helped start the live TV trend with "The Sound of Music" broadcast in 2013. "They'll rip it apart, they'll praise it." Leveaux has even coined a new term for the potential online hating this time, one that combines Twitter with crucifixion. He calls it death by "twitterfixon." ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:54 A.M. E.D.T.
 SEOUL/BEIJING —  Accompanied by his wife, greeted by honor guards, and entertained at banquets, Kim Jong Un made his international debut as North Korea's leader by being wined and dined in the capital of the world's most populous country. Kim's "unofficial" visit to China this week marks his first known trip outside the North since taking power in late 2011, and it helped burnish the image he has recently been cultivating as a leader who has to be shown respect by the world's most powerful. Despite recent chilly relations between the neighbors, Chinese President Xi Jinping rolled out an actual red carpet for Kim, who arrived from Pyongyang in a 21-car bulletproof train. "Just look at Kim's big smile on his face while he's shaking hands with Xi," said Kim Yong-hyun, professor of North Korean studies at South Korea's Dongguk University. "Although it was Kim's first trip outside North Korea since he took power, he looked quite confident, posing himself as a world player equal to China's Xi." Advertisement The surprise visit to Beijing comes as Kim has launched a diplomatic offensive, proposing upcoming summits with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and U.S. President Donald Trump. Advertisement LAVISH RECEPTION In line with the previous three visits by Kim's father to China, the Chinese government described the trip as unofficial, with no North Korean flags hung around Beijing's Tiananmen Square as happens with state visits. But Chinese state television gave similar coverage to Kim's meetings with Xi as they did to Xi's meetings with Trump last year, with an unusually long 14-minute report of what Xi and Kim discussed and where and how they met, though the initial secrecy of the trip meant no live coverage of the welcome ceremony. The images showed the two men chatting in a friendly way, and Xi's wife Peng Liyuan also greeting Kim's wife, Ri Sol Ju. Kim and Ri were shown waving out of a window as their car drew away. In making the trip to Beijing in the customized train, Kim sought to highlight his place as the heir to his father Kim Jong Il, said Aidan Foster-Carter, an honorary senior research fellow at Britain's Leeds University. His father had also gone to China by train on his visits. "Ordinary mortals just take the plane," he said. "The train sets the precedent of following in daddy's footsteps." But by making his wife a key figure in the Beijing trip, Kim parted from his father's behavior and mirrored the ways of today's modern country leaders. Kim Jong Il had never been seen abroad with any of his wives, though he was believed to have been accompanied by the woman suspected of being his fourth wife on visits to China and Russia, yet it was never announced officially.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Unlike his father, Kim Jong Un presented Ri Sol Ju as first lady of North Korea, emphasizing her status and portraying his image as a normal leader," said Dongkuk University's Kim. "It appears to be a well-calculated tactic that would help turn Kim's hostile and unfavorable image to a gentle and sane one." Advertisement LEGITIMACY AT HOME AND ABROAD As the leader of a country often called reclusive and strange, Kim is also much younger than many world leaders, a difference that gets additional resonance in Asia, where respectful deference to elders is widely upheld. Estimated to be 34, Kim is decades younger than 64-year-old Xi, 65-year-old Moon, and Trump, who is 71. Frosty relations between Beijing and Pyongyang since Kim took office had seen state-to-state relations deteriorate, but the two sides have always maintained party-to-party ceremonies and traditions, such as sending envoys to share the outcomes of key party meetings, according to diplomats. Kim officially cast his visit in the same light, saying he felt obligated to come congratulate Xi in person on his recent re-appointment as president, according to the Chinese Foreign Ministry's account of the trip. China's most senior party diplomat, Politburo member Yang Jiechi, attended the main meeting between Xi and Kim, along with Wang Huning, the party's top theoretician. The government's top diplomat, State Councillor Wang Yi, was also there, though at the far end of the table. From the North, Kim Jong Un brought with him the country's most high-profile officials, including vice chairman of the Workers' Party Central Committee Choe Ryong Hae, Politburo member Ri Su Yong, Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho, and Kim Yong Chol, a former intelligence chief who now handles inter-Korean affairs. Taking nearly all of his closest aides highlights the confidence he may be feeling now that he has secured his position, showing that he doesn't fear there could be a coup against him during his time away, said Yang Moo-jin, professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul. "We saw many high-ranking officials with Kim, but almost none from the military. One could worry about a military coup, but the fact that he made this trip as he did shows he's completely in charge of the military as well as all of North Korea's internal networks," Yang said. (Reporting by Christine Kim and Heekyong Yang in SEOUL and Ben Blanchard in BEIJING; Additional reporting by Christian Shepherd in BEIJING; Editing by Josh Smith and Martin Howell) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:36 A.M. E.D.T.
 JOHANNESBURG —  Sacked Australia captain Steve Smith and David Warner have both been banned for 12 months for their roles in the ball-tampering scandal in Cape Town, Cricket Australia (CA) announced on Wednesday, after uncovering a web of lies told by the players after they were caught. Opening batsman Cameron Bancroft was banned for nine months following the scandal, which has outraged the fans, jolted the sponsors and prompted CA to send the players home from South Africa. The trio will be allowed to compete in club cricket, but cannot take part in state or international games for the duration of their bans. "David Warner will not be considered for team leadership positions in the future," CA said in the statement, having fingered him in developing the plot. Advertisement Smith and Bancroft will have to wait two years before they are considered for leadership roles, and even then it will "be conditional on acceptance by fans and the public", according to CA. Advertisement Each player must also complete 100 hours of community service before being considered for future selection, while it was confirmed that the cheat had been confined to the trio only, exonerating team mates and coach Darren Lehmann of any wrong-doing. "This is a terrible situation. There are three guys going home that have been offered sanctions that are life-changing," Cricket Australia CEO James Sutherland told reporters on Wednesday. "There is a rebuild that needs to happen to reinstate the faith and the confidence, and I guess the pride that the Australian public had and should have in the Australian cricket team." SANDPAPER USE A key finding was that Bancroft had in fact used sandpaper to rough up the ball in the third test at Newlands, and not sticky tape as he stated, though Sutherland doubted this showed the cheat had been planned prior to the match or the days' play. "I'm not sure it's normal procedure, but I do understand that sandpaper is often in the dressing room or in the players' kit bags," he said. Warner was also found guilty of "provision of advice to a junior player (Bancroft) regarding how a ball could be artificially altered including demonstrating how it could be done". Part of the findings against Smith and Bancroft were that they had mislead both the umpires on the field of play, and the public in a press conference as to the "the nature, extent and participants of the plan".  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. While Smith and Bancroft were both found guilty of "knowledge" of the plan to cheat, a CA statement credits Warner with the "development" of the plot, suggesting he was the instigator. Advertisement All three have the right to appeal their sentences. Sutherland also said that there would be a review into the team culture and conduct of players. "Questions (are) obviously being asked of lots of people as to why or how that might have happened," he said. "That's part of the purpose of later discussion and review. We'll clearly take on board whatever comes out of such investigations. "We cannot have this happen again. It's just unquestionable and so obvious. If there are things that allow little things to turn into big things that allow this to happen, then you've got to go back to the core and find out what the little things are and address them. That is what we'll be doing." FINANCIAL FALLOUT Smith and Warner have also been stood down from their Indian Premier League (IPL) teams for 2018, representing a significant loss of income after the Rajasthan Royals and Sunrisers Hyderabad had paid $1.84-million respectively for their services. "We have decided to bar them from this season. The replacements will be made available to the two teams," IPL chairman Rajeev Shukla told reporters. There is more financial fallout possible with multinational electronics company LG having already said they will not renew a sponsorship with Warner, while several other partners of Cricket Australia are reviewing their positions in light of the embarrassing scandal. The trio will be replaced for the fourth and final test at The Wanderers in Johannesburg by opening batsmen Matthew Renshaw and Joe Burns, as well as all-rounder Glenn Maxwell. South Africa lead what has been a tempestuous series 2-1 having not enjoyed a home test series success against the Australians since 1970. Advertisement (Additional Reporting By Ed Cropley; Editing by Christian Radnedge) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By IAN AUSTEN and JASON HOROWITZMARCH 28, 2018
 OTTAWA — Despite a personal appeal from Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, the Roman Catholic Church has said that Pope Francis will not apologize for its role in a Canadian system that forced generations of Indigenous children into boarding schools. The residential school system, as it is commonly known in Canada, was described as a form of “cultural genocide” by a national Truth and Reconciliation Commission in 2015 that also concluded that many students were physically and emotionally abused. Among its 94 recommendations was a call for an apology from the pope. The Catholic Church, along with several Protestant denominations, operated most of the schools for the government. “The Holy Father is aware of the findings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which he takes seriously,” Bishop Lionel Gendron, who is president of the Canadian Conference of Catholic Bishops, wrote in an open letter to Canada’s Indigenous people released on Tuesday. “After carefully considering the request and extensive dialogue with the Bishops of Canada, he felt that he could not personally respond.” Advertisement The pope and others before him have issued apologies in other situations. The Vatican did not respond to an email seeking comment late Wednesday night. Advertisement Perry Bellegarde, the national chief of the Assembly of First Nations, Canada’s largest Indigenous group, said he was disappointed by the church’s decision and would continue to press the Vatican for an apology. “We don’t give up,” Chief Bellegarde said. “It would be a great act of healing and a great act of reconciliation if it were to happen. Let’s see if we can alleviate their fears, whatever they are.” During a visit to the Vatican last May, Mr. Trudeau asked Francis to issue an apology. On Wednesday, the prime minister also expressed disappointment, telling reporters in Ottawa that his government would keep working on reconciliation“because we know taking responsibility for past mistakes and asking forgiveness is something that is core to our values as Canadians.” Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Anglican, Presbyterian and United churches in Canada, which also operated residential schools, issued apologies in the 1990s. Ten years ago, Stephen J. Harper, the Conservative prime minister at the time, apologized on behalf of the government and established the reconciliation commission. Chief Bellegarde said that the pope’s direct apology in 2015 during a trip to Bolivia for “grave sins” committed by the church against Indigenous people in the Americas gave him confidence that a similar apology over residential schools was still possible. The schools operated from 1883 until the last one closed in 1998. The commission found that children were severely punished for speaking Indigenous languages or following their cultural practices. It concluded that 3,201 students died while in the schools, often from mistreatment or neglect. About 80,000 former students are still alive. Pope Francis has tried to decentralize authority away from the Vatican and giving more authority to local bishops. And while some in the Vatican bristle at the notion that the pope should have to answer to a request of a secular government, the more important factor could be what guidance came from the bishops in Canada. Advertisement “The big question is what is the position of the Canadian bishops on this,” said Thomas Reese, a veteran Vatican watcher and senior analyst at Religion News Service. “If the bishops are saying ‘Don’t do it,’ he is getting mixed signals and he tends to support the local bishops.” Mr. Reese added that “for him to turn down the bishops and the government, that would be noteworthy.” Some in the Vatican have worried about the legal implications of apologies in cases with potentially large damages. About 50 Catholic organizations agreed to a financial settlement in the case of residential schools but were unable to raise enough money to fully cover the commitment. A 2015 court ruling released them from fulfilling the agreement. Yet popes have recently made a habit of public apologies. After apologizing for Catholic involvement in the slave trade, the church’s treatment of Jews and treating Galileo as a heretic, Pope John Paul II issued in 2000 a sweeping blanket request for forgiveness for the church’s sins over the past 2,000 years. “Recognizing the deviations of the past serves to reawaken our consciences to the compromises of the present,” John Paul II said. In 2010, Pope Benedict XVI apologized with “shame and remorse” to the victims of decades of sexual abuse by Catholic priests in Ireland. In addition to his apology in Bolivia, Francis asked for forgiveness in 2017 for the church’s role in the 1994 Rwanda genocide. As recently as January, Francis apologized to Chilean victims of abuse, though he created a larger problem for himself and his pontificate when he defended a Chilean bishop accused of covering up that abuse. The letter to Canada’s Indigenous people said the pope was considering a trip to Canada and would make meeting Indigenous people a priority in the event of a visit. Follow Ian Austen on Twitter: @ianrausten. Follow Jason Horowitz on Twitter: @jasondhorowitz. Ian Austen reported from Ottawa, and Jason Horowitz from Rome. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Pope Is Not Apologizing To Aboriginal Canadians.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOMARCH 28, 2018
 Now more than ever, the easiest answer to that pesky question — what’s keeping jazz vital these days? — appears to lie in London. And much of the serious activity there runs through Shabaka Hutchings. The 33-year-old tenor saxophonist anchors a handful of his own bands and served as the musical director for “We Out Here,” a Brownswood Recordings compilation with tracks from nine British groups, like a book of hours for the thriving young scene. In January Mr. Hutchings announced that he had signed with Impulse!, an imprint of Universal, and that the label would be releasing music from his various ensembles. The first to arrive is “Your Queen Is a Reptile,” the third album by his quartet, Sons of Kemet, and it’s an excellent place to start. This band has a rare instrumentation — tenor saxophone, tuba, two drummers — and a relentless, jouncing sound anchored in rhythms of the Caribbean. His two other major projects are Shabaka and the Ancestors, a collaboration with young South African musicians that has a forbearing, serious mission, and the Comet Is Coming, an astro-futurist trio influenced by electronic dance music. Sons of Kemet’s sound falls somewhere right between those two: It’s acoustic music, but adamant and dance-driven. The new album’s title takes a shot at the British monarchy, a system that, Mr. Hutchings says, reaffirms the notion that one’s birthright is enough to define class and status. He wrote each of the album’s nine tunes for an alternate matriarch from the African diaspora. Their titles all have the same construction: “My Queen Is Harriet Tubman;” “My Queen Is Yaa Asantewaa,” for an early-20th-century Ashanti ruler; “My Queen Is Ada Eastman,” for Mr. Hutchings’s Barbadian great-grandmother; and so on. On some tunes the band is joined by an M.C. or a poet, spinning verses of defiance and affirmation. Sons of Kemet’s music reaches vastly across the diaspora, though it has increasingly gravitated toward the Antilles. The band’s 2013 debut, “Burn,” was a restive, rangy album, stretching from slow deliquescence to scorching surrealism. Its sophomore release, “Lest We Forget What We Came Here to Do,” pulled toward calypso and soca, toward the earth, toward a more direct energy, thanks to Mr. Hutchings’s growing embrace of his own upbringing — he moved to Barbados at 6 and returned to London in high school — and to the impact of Theon Cross, a prodigious young talent who took over on tuba just before “Lest We Forget” was recorded. His playing centers on heavy oscillations between the strong and weak beats, and never lets up on a groove. Advertisement On “Your Queen Is a Reptile,” the interplay between Mr. Hutchings and Mr. Cross immediately calls you to attention, but as songs progress your focus drifts to the twin drummers — Tom Skinner and Seb Rochford — as they start to shift the flow from beneath. (Mr. Rochford left the group soon after recording this album, and was replaced by Eddie Hick.) It happens on “My Queen Is Ada Eastman,” the opening track: Mr. Hutchings finishes the song’s melody and Mr. Cross hops up an octave to join him in unison for a brief coda. Your ear catches a spark between the drummers, and you realize they’ve been sparring all along, their patterns making a big shared gesture, a half-circle, a contested zone. Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When things really get moving, as on the hotfooted “My Queen Is Harriet Tubman” or the steady climb of “My Queen Is Yaa Asantewaa,” Mr. Hutchings is liable to throw in his lot with the drummers, tonguing his reed to make a percussive, flaring effect that’s a bit like a rimshot on a hand drum, or the air-horn effect of a West Indian D.J. Advertisement This is one of many personal gestures Mr. Hutchings uses that don’t have a lot to do with the broader lexicon of the jazz saxophone. His inflections are different from those of an American saxophonist steeped in the blues, and he almost never bends his tones into blue notes — a staple of American music that grew out of Southern field hollers, but didn’t take hold in the Caribbean or in London. So while Mr. Hutchings’s saxophone sound passes through the American masters (he manages a smart balance of Sonny Rollins’s full-sail linear improvising and John Coltrane’s billowy grandeur, a rare achievement) his playing and composing also reflect British influences: You can hear the latent kinetics of Tom Challenger, a British saxophonist a few years Mr. Hutchings’s senior, and the thumping tunes that Courtney Pine wrote for the Jazz Warriors in the 1980s. This underlines one key to Mr. Hutchings’s appeal. In order to get a new generation invested, it’s not enough to play the horn a little differently than before. You’ve got to reshuffle the deck, renew the context entirely. As Mr. Hutchings spreads his wings, he is presenting an opportunity for listeners to fall in love with a sound that’s got the timeless assets of jazz — rebellion, collectivity, emotive abstraction — but doesn’t feel weighed down by its own past. Sons of Kemet“Your Queen Is a Reptile”(Impulse!) A version of this review appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page C2 of the New York edition with the headline: London Jazz Anchored in Caribbean Rhythms.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 12:01 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN FRANCISCO —  A family that gained attention for an emotional photograph of an African-American boy hugging a white police officer at a 2014 protest was killed when their SUV plunged off a scenic California highway, authorities said Wednesday as they asked for help figuring out what happened. "We have every indication to believe that all six children were in there," Mendocino County Sheriff Tom Allman said, appealing for tips to retrace where the siblings and two parents had been before the vehicle was found Monday in rocky ocean. "We know that an entire family vanished and perished during this tragedy." Some friends described married couple Jennifer and Sarah Hart as loving parents who took their adopted kids to Bernie Sanders rallies, while some neighbors said they called child welfare officials in their rural Washington state community over concerns about possible abuse or had noticed red flags. The California Highway Patrol has not determined why the vehicle went off an ocean overlook on a rugged part of coastline. A specialized team of accident investigators was trying to figure that out, Allman said. Advertisement "There were no skid marks, there were no brake marks" at the turnout on the Pacific Coast Highway where the vehicle went over, the sheriff said. Investigators have no reason to believe the crash was intentional, he said. Advertisement The 100-foot (31-meter) drop killed the women, both 39, and their children Markis Hart, 19; Jeremiah Hart, 14; and Abigail Hart, 14. Hannah Hart, 16; Devonte Hart, 15; and Sierra Hart, 12, have not been found. The Harts lived in Woodland, Washington, a small city outside Portland, Oregon, and had a recent visit from Child Protective Services, Clark County sheriff's Sgt. Brent Waddell told The Associated Press. He said the sheriff's office later entered the house and found no obvious signs of trouble or violence. It appeared the family planned a short trip because they left behind a pet, chickens and most of their belongings. Next-door neighbors Bruce and Dana DeKalb said they called child services Friday because they were concerned that Devonte Hart, who hugged the officer at the protest, was going hungry. They said he had been coming over to their house too often in the past week asking for food. The DeKalbs also recounted that three months after the family moved into the home on 2 acres with a fenced pasture in May 2017, one of the girls rang their doorbell at 1:30 a.m. She "was at our door in a blanket saying we needed to protect her," Bruce DeKalb said. "She said that they were abusing her. It haunted my wife since that day." In 2011, Sarah Hart pleaded guilty to a domestic assault charge in Minnesota. Her plea led to the dismissal of a charge of malicious punishment of a child, online court records say.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Bill Groener, 67, was a next-door neighbor of the family when they lived in West Linn, Oregon, and said the kids were home-schooled. Advertisement "They stayed indoors most of the time, even in really nice weather," Groener said. He said the family didn't eat sugar, raised their own vegetables, had animals and went on camping trips. "There was enough positive there to kind of counteract the feeling that something maybe wasn't quite right," Groener said. He said they were neighbors for about two years and that "privacy was a big thing for them." The family got attention after Devonte Hart was photographed during a 2014 protest in Portland, Oregon, over a grand jury's decision not to indict a police officer in the shooting of a black man in Ferguson, Missouri. The boy, holding a "Free Hugs" sign, stood crying. A Portland officer saw his sign and asked if he could have a hug, and an emotional Hart embraced him in a picture that was widely shared. At the time, Jennifer Hart wrote on social media: "My son has a heart of gold, compassion beyond anything I've ever experienced, yet struggles with living fearlessly when it comes to the police. ... He wonders if someday when he no longer wears a 'Free Hugs' sign around his neck, when he's a full-grown black male, if his life will be in danger for simply being." The family traveled to many festivals throughout the area — including events for presidential candidate Bernie Sanders — and were known for wearing matching T-shirts. Zippy Lomax, a Portland photographer who knew the Harts, told the Oregonian/Oregonlive.com that the reaction to the 2014 photo overwhelmed them, with negative attention focused on the multiracial family with lesbian parents. "They kind of closed off for a while, honestly," Lomax told the newspaper. But she added that "Jen and Sarah were the kind of parents this world desperately needs." ___ This story has been corrected to reflect the accurate spelling of Mendocino County Sheriff Tom Allman's last name. Advertisement ___ James reported from Woodland, Washington. AP reporter Steven Dubois in Portland, Oregon, and Phuong Le in Seattle also contributed. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ALEXANDER BURNSMARCH 28, 2018
 Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times. He was, to my mind, an ideal Republican candidate: a conservative Midwestern governor with a crusading political biography, access to big donors and a record unspoiled by service in Washington. I enjoyed predicting to my friends in New York that he’d be the Republican nominee, and watching their surprise that I wasn’t betting on Jeb. So it was with mixed feelings, in September 2015, that I reported a tip I got that Scott Walker was ending his campaign. I was on the Metro desk at the time but had kept up my relationships in Washington, and I teamed up with colleagues covering the primaries to confirm Mr. Walker’s surrender. It happened in a flash: I had my first scoop of the presidential race, and my political instincts were proved decisively wrong. In retrospect, it’s easy enough to see Mr. Walker as a hopeless candidate — a too-dull-for-television personality, obsessed with campaign mechanics and untutored in important matters of policy. So rapid was the onset of Mr. Walker’s irrelevance, he never even earned a scornful, Trump-authored nickname. (Sleepin’ Scott?) Advertisement But blaming Mr. Walker alone — as gratifying as that might be — would miss a larger point. Like many political reporters, I’ve spent months reflecting on the arc of 2016, pondering where my coverage might have missed the mark and why. Advertisement Many of the conventional explanations have been shallow and unsatisfying. It’s not the case, for instance, that the news media didn’t cover President Trump’s supporters or listen to their voices, or that reporters failed to visit the middle of the country. Scores of reporters have the datelines and airline receipts to prove it. For me at least, the real problem of 2016 was a failure of imagination. Much of campaign reporting is an exercise in imagination, informed by experience. You travel the country and talk to voters and activists and local officials, and you form a theory of what the electorate wants. You study public opinion and recent history to gauge which outcomes are possible and which are not. You meet candidates and size them up, on and off the record, assessing how knowledgeable, intellectually agile, and comfortable with criticism and combat they are. And you ask yourself: Can I imagine this person scrapping their way through a debate? Or negotiating with hardheaded legislators? Or empathizing with constituents who don’t look like them? Sometimes you misread a person. In the winter after President Barack Obama’s first election, I crossed paths with a member of the Republican National Committee who was fiercely supporting Michael Steele’s bid for chairman. Over breakfast, he came across as a blunt, unsmiling party foot soldier. There was nothing, at the time, that suggested Mike Pompeo, the man sipping coffee, could be nominated for secretary of state inside of a decade. But more often you’re right. It turns out the easygoing Alabama trial lawyer with a heroic prosecutor’s story really did have a chance against the hard-right former judge with an attic full of unexamined skeletons. If Doug Jones was at a loss for words when he defeated Roy S. Moore, his victory came about much as Mr. Jones told me three months earlier he hoped that it would: through an energized Democratic base and mass defections among moderate Republicans appalled by Mr. Moore. Along the way, from one campaign to the next, you build a set of instincts that guide your interpretation of events. If you’re not careful, those instincts can harden into something more like rules — the kind that tell you a Mitt Romney-like governor is a strong candidate for president and a person who offends most Americans cannot win a general election. In 2016, I paid too much attention to those rules — the ones formed by habit and social convention, about what candidates are allowed to say and which credentials they’re supposed to have — and too little to the rules regulating who gets to vote and whose votes matter the most. Reversing those priorities, I might have anticipated the historic gulf between the popular vote and the Electoral College that made Mr. Trump president. Yet so far in 2018, it seems even the rules chiseled into law may not control events on Election Day. If a Pennsylvania congressional district drawn to favor Republicans by a landslide margin can elect a Democrat, even by a few hundred votes, then this environment of political turbulence could bend the midterm campaign in directions beyond imagining. Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: What the 2016 Election Taught Me.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:50 A.M. E.D.T.
 GREAT YARMOUTH, England —  Leaning over the counter of his seafood stall in the English seaside town of Great Yarmouth, Darran Nichols-George says those still moaning about the British vote to leave the European Union need to stop complaining. "At the end of the day we live in a democracy and therefore they've had the vote," said 51-year-old Nichols-George, peering over cartons of prawns, crabs, mussels and jellied eels. "We voted out so we're going to go out." The fishmonger was one of the 17.4 million Britons who voted to quit the EU in a 2016 referendum, giving the Brexit campaign victory over the 16.1 million voters who wanted to stay. Since then, Brexit has never been far from the headlines, from difficult talks with the EU and leaks of government forecasts that Britain will be worse off, to fish dumped into the River Thames by fishermen angry at European quotas. Advertisement A year before Britain leaves the bloc in March 2019, allegations that the main campaign for leaving the EU broke the law have revived memories of the bitter referendum battle. Advertisement Despite the issue dominating discussions in parliament and the pages of newspapers, voters' views seem entrenched as ever. "People now think of themselves as Leavers or Remainers and see developments from that perspective," Sara Hobolt, a professor of politics at the London School of Economics, told Reuters. She estimates that 80 to 90 percent of Britons have not changed their minds since 2016. Some senior figures, such as former Prime Minister Tony Blair, have demanded a second referendum on the final deal agreed with the EU, so people could have a say in full knowledge of the possible outcome. But polls and research suggest there is no overwhelming support for another vote. Even if there was another plebiscite, the surveys show Britons are still deeply divided and most would probably vote the same way. "Tony Blair -- he should keep his snout out," said retired 68-year-old Michael Cutting, who voted Leave and has lived in Great Yarmouth his whole life. His view is shared by many in the rundown holiday resort, a once bustling fishing port some 140 miles (200 km) northeast of London, where paint peels off windswept ferris wheels and mainly elderly visitors wander past its "Golden Mile" sandy beach and drab amusement arcades. "NO MESSING AROUND" Great Yarmouth has the country's lowest percentage of college graduates -- 14.2 percent -- and a high rate of unemployment. In 2016, 71.5 percent of votes cast here were for Leave, putting it in one of the top 10 Brexit-supporting areas in the country. Advertisement "I think we should all get out of [the EU] now, straight away, no messing around," said Philip Blake, 60, between chopping cuts of prime British beef for display at his family-run butchers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "They're taking too long over it now. Just go. Hard Brexit, whatever, I don't mind." While an EU flag flies in tatters beside Great Yarmouth's seaside promenade, in the affluent university city of Norwich just 21 miles (34 km) away, the sentiment about Europe could hardly be more different but the intransigence is the same. "I hate it, I really do," said Gaye Sorah, 59, who was close to tears at the thought of Brexit. "One year to go, it’s a disaster. I just wish we could rewind the clock." Norwich, where tourists wander between the market's stalls, chattering in a variety of tongues while students cycle down medieval cobbled streets, bucked the trend for the region with 56 percent of voters backing staying in the EU. Pro-EU posters adorn the whole foods stall owned by Gareth Butcher, 69, and his 66-year-old wife Jane Wirgman, who proudly wears a "We are Europe" badge. "I could see no advantage in leaving, particularly not on a dream of empires past," Butcher said. "I’ve not changed my mind at all and it's a source of some amusement to me that as the ramifications become clear ... that a lot of other people’s minds are being concentrated." Expressions of such regret are hard to find, but dishing out bags of chunky fries from his van in Great Yarmouth, Robin Platten thinks he was wrong to vote to leave. "I've been thinking maybe I might have made a mistake," Platten, 60, whose family have run the Brewer Chip Saloon takeaway stall in the town's market since 1902. "It's a great big tunnel with no light at the end of it, as far as I'm concerned," he told Reuters. "I think maybe everybody should be given a second chance for the mistakes that they've made. But I don't think that's going to happen." Advertisement Even some voters who backed remain have no desire to see the process dragging on, however -- despite their continued misgivings. "I think we may as well get on with it now," said Kathryn Fabian, 20, a student in Norwich. "I feel like we had our say back then, it's been decided. Let's just move on." (Writing by Michael Holden; Editing by Guy Faulconbridge and Catherine Evans) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:48 A.M. E.D.T.
 SEOUL/BEIJING —  Accompanied by his wife, greeted by honour guards, and entertained at banquets, Kim Jong Un made his international debut as North Korea's leader by being wined and dined in the capital of the world's most populous country. Kim's "unofficial" visit to China this week marks his first known trip outside the North since taking power in late 2011, and it helped burnish the image he has recently been cultivating as a leader who has to be shown respect by the world's most powerful. Despite recent chilly relations between the neighbours, Chinese President Xi Jinping rolled out an actual red carpet for Kim, who arrived from Pyongyang in a 21-car bulletproof train. "Just look at Kim's big smile on his face while he's shaking hands with Xi," said Kim Yong-hyun, professor of North Korean studies at South Korea's Dongguk University. "Although it was Kim's first trip outside North Korea since he took power, he looked quite confident, posing himself as a world player equal to China's Xi." Advertisement The surprise visit to Beijing comes as Kim has launched a diplomatic offensive, proposing upcoming summits with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and U.S. President Donald Trump. Advertisement LAVISH RECEPTION In line with the previous three visits by Kim's father to China, the Chinese government described the trip as unofficial, with no North Korean flags hung around Beijing's Tiananmen Square as happens with state visits. But Chinese state television gave similar coverage to Kim's meetings with Xi as they did to Xi's meetings with Trump last year, with an unusually long 14-minute report of what Xi and Kim discussed and where and how they met, though the initial secrecy of the trip meant no live coverage of the welcome ceremony.     The images showed the two men chatting in a friendly way, and Xi's wife Peng Liyuan also greeting Kim's wife, Ri Sol Ju. Kim and Ri were shown waving out of a window as their car drew away. In making the trip to Beijing in the customised train, Kim sought to highlight his place as the heir to his father Kim Jong Il, said Aidan Foster-Carter, an honorary senior research fellow at Britain's Leeds University. His father had also gone to China by train on his visits. "Ordinary mortals just take the plane," he said. "The train sets the precedent of following in daddy's footsteps." But by making his wife a key figure in the Beijing trip, Kim parted from his father's behaviour and mirrored the ways of today's modern country leaders. Kim Jong Il had never been seen abroad with any of his wives, though he was believed to have been accompanied by the woman suspected of being his fourth wife on visits to China and Russia, yet it was never announced officially.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Unlike his father, Kim Jong Un presented Ri Sol Ju as first lady of North Korea, emphasising her status and portraying his image as a normal leader," said Dongkuk University's Kim. "It appears to be a well-calculated tactic that would help turn Kim's hostile and unfavourable image to a gentle and sane one." Advertisement LEGITIMACY AT HOME AND ABROAD As the leader of a country often called reclusive and strange, Kim is also much younger than many world leaders, a difference that gets additional resonance in Asia, where respectful deference to elders is widely upheld. Estimated to be 34, Kim is decades younger than 64-year-old Xi, 65-year-old Moon, and Trump, who is 71. Frosty relations between Beijing and Pyongyang since Kim took office had seen state-to-state relations deteriorate, but the two sides have always maintained party-to-party ceremonies and traditions, such as sending envoys to share the outcomes of key party meetings, according to diplomats.     Kim officially cast his visit in the same light, saying he felt obligated to come congratulate Xi in person on his recent re-appointment as president, according to the Chinese Foreign Ministry's account of the trip.     China's most senior party diplomat, Politburo member Yang Jiechi, attended the main meeting between Xi and Kim, along with Wang Huning, the party's top theoretician. The government's top diplomat, State Councillor Wang Yi, was also there, though at the far end of the table. From the North, Kim Jong Un brought with him the country's most high-profile officials, including vice chairman of the Workers' Party Central Committee Choe Ryong Hae, Politburo member Ri Su Yong, Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho, and Kim Yong Chol, a former intelligence chief who now handles inter-Korean affairs. Taking nearly all of his closest aides highlights the confidence he may be feeling now that he has secured his position, showing that he doesn't fear there could be a coup against him during his time away, said Yang Moo-jin, professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul. "We saw many high-ranking officials with Kim, but almost none from the military. One could worry about a military coup, but the fact that he made this trip as he did shows he's completely in charge of the military as well as all of North Korea's internal networks," Yang said. (Reporting by Christine Kim and Heekyong Yang in SEOUL and Ben Blanchard in BEIJING; Additional reporting by Christian Shepherd in BEIJING; Editing by Josh Smith and Martin Howell) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:48 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  Dealing with an issue that could affect elections across the country, Supreme Court justices wrestled Wednesday with how far states may go to craft electoral districts that give the majority party a huge political advantage. But even as they heard their second case on partisan redistricting in six months, the justices expressed uncertainty about the best way to deal with a problem that several said would get worse without the court's intervention. The arguments the court heard Wednesday were over an appeal by Republican voters in Maryland who object to a congressional district that Democrats drew to elect a candidate of their own. The Maryland case is a companion to one from Wisconsin in which Democrats complain about a Republican-drawn map of legislative districts. That case was argued in October and remains undecided. Advertisement Justice Stephen Breyer suggested that the court could add in yet a third case involving North Carolina's congressional districts and set another round of arguments to deal with all three states. Advertisement Breyer said that "we'd have right in front of us the possibilities as thought through by lawyers and others who have an interest in this subject." His comment is an indication that the justices haven't figured out the Wisconsin case in the nearly six months since it was argued. More importantly, it suggests that Justice Anthony Kennedy, whose vote almost certainly controls the outcome, has reservations about using the Wisconsin case for the court's first-ever ruling that districting plans that entrench one party's control of the legislature or congressional delegation can violate the constitutional rights of the other party's voters. The Maryland lawsuit offers the court a more limited approach to dealing with the issue because it involves just one district that flipped from Republican to Democratic control after the 2011 round of redistricting. The justices have several issues before them: — Should courts even be involved in the political task of redistricting? — Is there a workable way to measure how much politics is too much?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. —Do the particular plans being challenged cross that line? There was broad agreement that the Republican voters who sued presented what Justice Sonia Sotomayor called "pretty damning" evidence that the Democrats who controlled the state government wanted to increase the Democrats' edge in the congressional from 6-2 to 7-1. Even Chief Justice John Roberts, who has questioned lawsuits over partisan redistricting, said the redrawing of the 6th congressional district seemed to lack "any internal logic," other than to elect a Democrat. Residents of the wealthy Washington, D.C., suburb of Potomac, Maryland, were lumped in with people who live in the rural northwestern corner of the state, Roberts said. "They both have farms. But the former, hobby farms. And the others are real farms." Advertisement But Roberts was among several justices, including liberal justices who seemed inclined to side with the challengers, who raised a procedural problem that could keep the court from deciding the merits of the case. The Wisconsin case also has a potential problem that could prevent a decision about partisan redistricting. That's where Breyer's suggestion could come in. He said even a decision striking down the Maryland map, which he said seems to be an extreme gerrymander, would not necessarily apply to other cases and would leave unaddressed what he called a serious, national problem. If the court doesn't confront the big issues now, Breyer said, sophisticated map-makers using increasingly powerful technology will create more effective partisan maps after the 2020 census. Putting all the challenged plans together would allow for a comprehensive ruling, he said. Over the past 16 months, courts struck down political districting plans drawn by Republicans in North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Federal judges threw out a state legislative map in Wisconsin and a congressional plan in North Carolina. In Pennsylvania, the state Supreme Court invalidated the state's congressional districts and replaced them with a court-drawn plan. The Supreme Court has put the drawing of new maps on hold in North Carolina and Wisconsin, but refused to block the Pennsylvania court's adoption of revised congressional districts for this year's elections. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 11:06 P.M. E.D.T.
 CARY, N.C. —  Tim Weah ran onto the field wearing bright orange boots, the first player born in the 2000s to play for the United States. "This is what I've been waiting for my whole life," said the 18-year-old, the son of Liberian President George Weah, the 1995 FIFA Player of the Year. "I'm really appreciative of the chance that the coaching staff has given me, and I'm hoping that I get more call-ups." Weah debuted in the 86th minute, Bobby Wood scored on a penalty kick and the U.S. beat Paraguay 1-0 in an exhibition Tuesday night for its first win in three games under interim coach Dave Sarachan. Weah entered in the 86th minute and was pulled down three minutes later by Derlin Gonzalez. Weah made his debut for Paris Saint-Germain on March 3, less than two weeks after his birthday. He played alongside American midfielder Darlington Nagbe, whose father Joe was Liberia's captain and a teammate of George Weah on the national team. Advertisement Midfielder Marky Delgado and forward Andrija Novakovich — whose family drove 16 hours from Wisconsin for the game — also made their U.S. debuts. Sarachan has given three players debuts in each game since taking over for Bruce Arena, who quit in November after the U.S. failed to qualify for the World Cup. Advertisement Sarachan praised his young players for winning a "a real big-boy game" that included seven yellow cards — five for Paraguay. "All the guys that came in had a great experience of being a part of the national team throughout the nine days," Sarachan said. "You don't just make changes for change's sake. We did want to make at least 3-4 subs, and could have been six, but that game sort of evolved in a way where we felt like the players on the field needed to be rewarded for a great effort." Delgado's 50-yard pass led to the foul that resulted in the 45th-minute penalty kick. Jorge Villafana won Bruno Valdez's throw-in deep in the U.S. end and headed the ball to Tyler Adams, a 19-year-old midfielder making his third international appearance. Adams squared to Delgado before taking off and reached Delgado's pass about 30 yards from goal. Adams rounded goalkeeper Roberto Fernandez, who tripped him with an outstretched arm . "With my pace . I was able to go at the goalkeeper, and he took a good angle on the initial shot," Adams said. "I was going to try to tuck it  back post, so I tried to drag it across my body, and the keeper caught me. And Bobby just stepped up and buried it."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Wood, making his first start since Feb. 10, for Hamburg against Borussia Dortmund, coaxed Fernandez into diving right while his penalty kick went left for his 11th international goal. Novakovich, who has 18 goals this season for Telstar in the Dutch second tier, replaced Wood in the 77th minute and missed a chance to score in stoppage time when his point-blank shot went into Fernandez' chest. Sarachan is likely to add some veterans when the U.S. gathers in late May for exhibitions against Bolivia, Ireland and France. The Americans won't play a competitive match until the 2019 CONCACAF Gold Cup, and a new coach may not be hired until after this summer's World Cup. The U.S. debuted new uniforms with blue horizontal stripes — which would have been its road set during the World Cup. Sarachan started seven players with five international appearances or fewer, a youth movement that followed the end of the United States' streak of seven straight World Cup appearances. Advertisement Zack Steffen started in goal after making his debut in the second half of a January exhibition against Bosnia-Herzegovina that ended 0-0. Kenny Saief, playing for the first time since his debut last June, had a chance in the 16th minute when his 8-yard shot was deflected by Bruno Valdez with a slide tackle and cleared by Gustavo Gomez. Paraguay, which is missing its second straight World Cup after four consecutive appearances, had a prime scoring chance in the 68th minute. Atlanta midfielder Miguel Almiron missed wide in the 68th minute and Hernan Perez was just off the target with a header in the 75th minute. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:33 A.M. E.D.T.
 NEW ORLEANS —  Damian Lillard couldn't get out of New Orleans fast enough. The Pelicans could only wish the Portland All-Star had been in even more of hurry. Lillard scored 20 of his 41 points in the fourth quarter to lift the Trail Blazers to a 107-103 victory on Tuesday night, then booked a flight straight home in hopes of arriving in time for the birth of his first child. Lillard, who's been expecting a son, said he found out when he got back to the locker room after the game that his girlfriend had gone into labor. He said the message was along the lines of: "Get home." He said he'd head straight to the hospital as soon as he landed. "I'm excited. I've been waiting," Lillard said. Advertisement He'd stuck with his team as long as he could because the Blazers are in a tight playoff race, and the two teams closest behind them in the standings — Oklahoma City and New Orleans — are the past two they've played. They beat both to strengthen their hold on third place, moving 2 ½ games ahead of the Thunder and 3 ½ ahead of New Orleans with eight games left. Advertisement "We knew that these two were really, really big and I'm just happy I'm going to be able to get on that plane knowing we got these first two" of the current three-game road trip, Lillard said. Portland coach Terry Stotts said he planned to rest Lillard to start the fourth quarter, when the Pelicans led by four. Lillard asked to stay in the game, and made Stotts look smart for acquiescing. "We were just fighting, fighting, fighting, and I was like, 'Man, we've got to roll. I don't want to come out,'" Lillard said. "I don't want the game to change, you know, them go on a run. I don't want anything to be out of my control and me not being able to have an impact on whatever happens." Lillard hit his first six shots of the fourth quarter, including two 3-pointers, to push Portland into its first lead since early in the first quarter. He continued to slice through converging defenders to convert difficult driving scoops and closed it out with game-sealing free throws with 1.3 seconds left. Anthony Davis had 36 points, 14 rebounds and six blocks for the Pelicans, with 22 points coming after he rolled his right ankle and briefly came out of the game with 5:15 left in the third quarter. Jrue Holiday had 21 points, 11 assists and 11 rebounds for New Orleans, which has lost two straight. After Holiday's block on Pat Connaughton with 20 seconds left, New Orleans wound up with two shots to tie or lead, but both of E'Twaun Moore's 3-point attempts rimmed out. The Blazers failed to rebound the first, but Connaughton corralled the second miss with 2 seconds left and quickly got the ball to Lillard, who was fouled.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We're not going to get two better looks than that," Pelicans coach Alvin Gentry said. "We got two wide-open 3-point shots with the guy we want shooting. "If I do take a timeout, they have a chance to set their defense or whatever, so I would take those two open shots," Gentry added. Advertisement Jusuf Nurkic had 21 points and 10 rebounds for Portland, highlighted by his putback of C.J. McCollum's miss while being fouled by Moore with 3:55 left to give the Blazers a 96-95 lead. Evan Turner scored 14 points for the Blazers. Al Farouq Aminu added 10 points and 10 rebounds, including a crucial putback of Lillard's miss with 28 seconds left to make it 105-101. New Orleans led by as many as 11 twice in the third quarter, the last time on Davis' 9-foot floater with 7:41 left in the period. TIP-INS Trail Blazers: Starting F Maurice Harkless was scratched from the lineup with left knee soreness. The Blazers announced after the game that Harkless would undergo arthroscopic surgery Wednesday in Portland to remove a loose particle in his left knee. ... Portland won its seventh straight on the road. ... McCollum missed 16 of 19 shots, going 1 of 6 from 3-point range, and finished with seven points. ... Portland was 10 of 32 on 3s. Pelicans: Starting G Rajon Rondo, who missed New Orleans' loss at Houston on Saturday with a sprained right wrist, was scratched from his second straight game shortly before tip-off. ... Moore had 11 points. ... F Solomon Hill played a season-high 21 minutes in his fifth game back from offseason hamstring surgery. He finished with nine points, four assists and three rebounds. ... Holiday had two blocks, including one from behind on Lillard. SECOND CHANCES While Portland shot only 41.9 percent (44 of 105), the Blazers converted 17 offensive rebounds into 27 second-chance points. Aminu had seven offensive rebounds and Nurkic four. "We come up with stop after stop after stop, but it doesn't matter if we're giving the ball back and they're putting it back in the basket," Gentry said. UP NEXT Trail Blazers: Visit Memphis on Wednesday night. Pelicans: Visit Cleveland on Friday night. ___ More NBA basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 10:27 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  Accustomed by now to playing without their best player, the Washington Wizards put on another clinic of team basketball before they get five-time All-Star John Wall back. Seven players scored in double figures as the Wizards beat the San Antonio Spurs 116-106 on Tuesday night to snap a three-game losing streak in the middle of a tight Eastern Conference playoff race. San Antonio lost for just the second time in eight games but may have been dealt a more serious blow with a left knee injury to star LaMarcus Aldridge. "We are at a point if LaMarcus gets a cough, a cold, we are in deep trouble," veteran guard Manu Ginobili said. "So hopefully it's just a one half thing because if not it's really going to get tough to score down the stretch. We've got tough opponents. We're playing against teams that need wins. Hopefully it's nothing." Markieff Morris led Washington with 15 points on 7-of-7 shooting in just 17 minutes, and the rest of the lineup showcased the kind of balance that helped the Wizards go 15-11 in 26 consecutive games without Wall. Advertisement "We want to welcome him back with momentum, not with losing a couple games and wanting him to come back and like save the day," Morris said. "We want him to come back while we're in the flow, while guys are feeling good and he just brings the presence that he always brings." Advertisement While Wall is on the verge of returning from a two-month absence after left knee surgery, the Spurs await an MRI on Aldridge's left knee after he limped off late in the second quarter. Aldridge was the game's leading scorer with 13 points at the time and still finished with the most for San Antonio despite not playing the second half. Thanks to Washington's 38-point second quarter and Aldridge's injury, the game was more of a blowout than the score indicated. In a nod to Kevin Durant and Wizards center Marcin Gortat, coach Scott Brooks joked, "I'm going to tweet in my burner account that it was a good team win." It was a necessary one after the Wizards had dropped to sixth in the East by losing five of seven. They could clinch a playoff spot as early as Thursday. "It's definitely a sigh of relief just because obviously we chipped away three in a row," said Kelly Oubre Jr., who had 12 points off the bench. "Every game counts moving on, so we've got one more to clinch and that's definitely in our mind." The Spurs can't yet think about clinching. They're potentially in a more precarious spot, sitting sixth in the West with Utah, Minnesota, Denver and the Los Angeles Clippers all within reach behind them.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. TIP-INS Spurs: Only seven times this season had they given up more than 116 points. ... Fell to 2-9 on the road since Feb. 1. ... Shot 18 of 33 (54.5 percent) from the free throw line. Brandon Paul's 0 for 2 in the fourth quarter earned all fans in attendance a free fast-food chicken sandwich. ... Are 2-5 this season without Aldridge. Wizards: Got 61 points from reserves. ... Otto Porter Jr. scored 14 points on 6 of 7 shooting. ... Made 10 of 24 3-point attempts. WALL NEARING RETURN While Wall insisted he'll be himself when he gets back, Brooks is already having discussions about how to manage the 27-year-old's seemingly imminent return because the ramping-up process is going so well. Advertisement "His knee is responding through everything that we put him through, so it's getting close," Brooks said. "We're pushing him in practice, making sure he can withstand the intensity that it's going to be in a game as much as we can simulate it." SPURS TO SUPREME COURT San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich took his team to the Supreme Court on Tuesday, where they met Chief Justice John Roberts and heard from Justice Sonia Sotomayor about her life and experiences. Popovich wanted players to continue learning about things outside basketball, which seemed to work. "I thought it was dope," Paul said. "I took a business law class in high school. ... I'm a big fan of the law. My mom jokes with me and says that I should try and go to law school and stuff like that. I thought it was cool to meet the different people that came to talk to us." UP NEXT Spurs: Return home to face the Oklahoma City Thunder on Thursday. Wizards: Visit the Detroit Pistons on Thursday. ___ More AP NBA coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By KEVIN DRAPERMARCH 28, 2018
 The Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio, is supposed to become a Disney-esque, multiple-day destination with a four-star hotel, a state-of-the-art stadium, a water park, a youth sports complex, a retail promenade, a convention space, a 143-bed assisted living facility for retired Hall of Famers and a small hospital. At the moment, however, it is a project with a skyrocketing budget, stalled progress, a developer with a checkered performance history in the region who has been accused of misusing $25 million in funds from a federal program, and contractors who recently went months without being paid. Financing problems have necessitated an emergency bank loan, and elected officials in Stark County have discussed a special ballot measure for a sales tax increase to subsidize the project known as Hall of Fame Village. “You have to watch the warning signs when you are working with any developer,” said David Held, the mayor of North Canton, which has its own, ongoing fight with Industrial Realty Group, the developer of the Hall of Fame Village. “Sometimes the vision can be very big, but the planning and resources may not be in place like the local officials understood.” Pete Fierle, a spokesman for the Pro Football Hall of Fame, which is not a part of the National Football League but has received millions of dollars in funding from the league, declined to discuss the development problems and the funding of the project. He did confirm contractors were recently paid. Advertisement In a statement, a spokesman for the Hall of Fame Village claimed the project was moving forward. “We’re making great progress on the project,” the statement said. “We have recently raised new financing for the project, and have satisfied outstanding obligations. We are adding new resources to the company and expect to raise additional capital to fully build out this exciting development.” Advertisement The story of how something that began as a $25 million renovation of an old football stadium became an $1 billion, mixed-use mega-project is about two long-connected entities — local officials in Canton and Hall of Fame boosters — each hoping they could help solve each other’s problems. Canton, an hour south of Cleveland in the heart of a region that has suffered hundreds of thousands of lost jobs in manufacturing during the past 50 years, needed something big to help boost the local economy. The Pro Football Hall of Fame needed local support to become something more than a museum near a declining stadium. The Hall attracts 225,000 visitors annually, but many of them come on a single weekend in early August. No one will ever confuse Canton with Cooperstown, N.Y., home of the Baseball Hall of Fame, a picturesque town and well-known summer opera destination, with nearby ski areas and lakes that combine to make it a year-round destination for people who never set foot into the baseball museum. But if the Pro Football Hall of Fame can bring hundreds of millions of dollars in private investment to Canton, as well as millions of visitors, it could have a transformative effect on the city. Bill Krueger, whose company performed an economic impact study about the project, told The Canton Repository in 2015 the development could be a “game changer” for not only “our local and regional economy, but all of Northeast Ohio.” What would become the National Football League was founded in 1920, at a Canton car dealership. Jim Thorpe was elected its first president, and the Canton Bulldogs won two early championships. Financial troubles and the city’s small size caused the Bulldogs to fold in 1927, but Canton’s place at the heart of the game was secured in 1963, when the Pro Football Hall of Fame opened in town. For the next 50 years, the Hall of Fame existed as a museum next to a small stadium — owned by the local school district — that attracted football enthusiasts and the N.F.L. once a year for its induction ceremony and preseason game. Then four years ago, the Hall of Fame announced a plan for a $25 million stadium upgrade, with the possibility of additional development. In 2015, the Hall of Fame unveiled an expanded plan for what had become a $476 million Hall of Fame Village. An economic development report commissioned by the Hall projected a completion date of 2019, one million visitors by 2020 and three million by 2025. Advertisement Months later, the complete rebuilding of Tom Benson Stadium began. The old Fawcett Stadium was renamed after the late owner of the New Orleans Saints when he donated $11 million toward construction. Much of that work was completed in time for an unveiling ceremony at the 2017 Hall of Fame game in August, though construction in one end of the stadium remains incomplete. The rebuild has cost at least $150 million so far. Laborers worked double shifts and on weekends to get the stadium ready for the Hall of Fame game. Then, in September, contractors working on the stadium received only 60 percent of what they were owed, according to John Ross, a lawyer for four of the contractors. In January, the contractors filed liens against the project. By early February, at least 18 mostly small and local contractors had filed over $8 million in liens. Not getting paid caused a “negative cascading effect on the finances” of the contractors he represents, Ross said. I.R.G. finally paid the contractors last week. Ross said a number of them had gotten involved in the project because of its importance to Canton, but they will be hesitant to perform work on the Hall of Fame Village in the future without adequate assurances of sufficient funding. The contractors were paid days after I.R.G. closed on an up-to-$100 million short-term loan for the project. The loan was provided by Great American Capital Partners, a Los Angeles-based finance company. Great American didn’t respond to messages requesting comment on the loan. Financing documents filed with local authorities show about $35 million in funding for the stadium renovation is coming from various public sources. Another $13 million comes from donations made by Tom Benson and various foundations. The project also no longer has a $476 million price tag. C. David Baker, the Hall president, has begun calling it a billion-dollar development, with most of the work yet to be completed. It isn’t clear if private funding can cover the costs, leading to discussions among local officials about potentially having to increase sales taxes to help fund the project. Such concerns dominated a recent meeting of local elected officials on economic development. Richard Regula and Bill Smith, two of the three county commissioners who would have to approve a tax increase, said they are against it. Advertisement “I know how the N.F.L. works,” Regula said, “and sometimes they rely on the local community to build them stadiums and things like that, and we simply can’t do that here in Stark County.” Commissioner Janet Creighton could not be reached for comment. N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell and six N.F.L. owners are members of the Hall of Fame’s board of trustees. The N.F.L. did not respond to a request for comment. One of the biggest concerns about the project is that what is happening in nearby North Canton will happen to the Hall of Fame Village, too.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In 2007, the Hoover Company left North Canton for good, taking with them 2,400 jobs, contributing to a 25 percent loss of income tax revenue and leaving a 70-acre factory site empty. The next year Maple Street Investors — a partnership between Stuart Lichter, the president of I.R.G., and two local developers — bought the site of the former Hoover plant for $5 million. By 2013 they had partially refurbished the site, retrofitting office and industrial space. About 1,100 people now work in the reimagined Hoover District. Much of that refurbishment was paid for by the public. Two grants from the state of Ohio accounted for about $5.8 million of the estimated $7 million of infrastructure work, Held, the North Canton mayor said. He considers this initial phase of construction a major success. “We want them to succeed,” Held said. “When they succeed, it brings more jobs and revenue to the city.” Developers were supposed to complete the second, much larger, phase of the project — which would include housing, restaurants and retail — by the end of 2015, but it is nowhere near done. Held said the developers conducted “a lot of promotion of the project, but they would start, and stop, and start, and stop.” He spent the end of 2017 imploring the developers to remove plywood from empty windows and put in glass, to make the site less of an eyesore, and to bring the buildings that had received work in compliance with building codes. The $50 million second phase was supposed to be funded, at least in part, with $36 million from a federal program. CMB Infrastructure Investment Group, which invested $36 million in the project, filed a lawsuit against Maple Street Investors and Lichter in 2016, claiming they violated federal rules governing the funding. Advertisement According to the complaint, just two days after receiving the funds, Maple Street Investors “diverted at least $25,000,000 of the Loan proceeds.” CMB argued the $25 million went to intermediaries and was eventually lent to I.R.G., to complete the development of a former Goodyear campus in nearby Akron, Ohio. In court documents, Lichter’s lawyers said $19.8 million of the money went to a company controlled solely by Lichter, and $16.2 million to a company controlled solely by Christopher Semarjian, one of his partners in the Hoover project. The lawyers could not provide a full accounting of the money because it was “commingled with unrelated funds,” but they said in court documents the two companies have continued to repay Maple Street Investors, which Lichter said CMB’s chief executive told him was allowed. In early January, CMB and Maple Street Investors entered into a settlement agreement, and the lawsuit has been set aside for now. The agreement stipulated that Lichter and Maple Street Investors had 60 days to “pursue financing from a nonaffiliated commercial lender to pay a portion of the settlement amount” and 90 days to close the loan. John Christie, a lawyer for CMB, declined to comment on the status of the case, or whether Maple Street Investors has obtained the money, though the 60 days have already passed. Some local officials want to to know why the N.F.L. isn’t more involved in the process. The Pro Football Hall of Fame is a nonprofit that is separate from the N.F.L. According to its most recent tax filing, in 2015 the organization had $29 million in revenue. About $9.5 million came from contributions; $5 million from government grants, and $4.5 million from unnamed contributors. According to The Canton Repository, the Hall of Fame has received “tens of millions” from the N.F.L. over the years. The N.F.L. has also been an enthusiastic supporter of the Pro Football Hall of Fame Village. Goodell is good friends with Baker, who was formerly the commissioner of the Arena Football League, and has said he wants the league “to play a role in how this comes out.” The league will have office space in the completed village, and there is also a combined Cleveland/Canton bid to host the 2019 or 2020 N.F.L. draft. N.F.L. owners will choose the draft sites in May. Held believes the N.F.L. should take more responsibility for the development, and ensure no more public money is spent on it. “Before you put a shovel in the ground, it is just good business practice to make sure you have your short- and long-term financing in place,” he added. “Clearly, that was not done. It was either overbuilt, underfunded, or a combination of both.” Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Expansion Project For Hall of Fame Takes Plenty of Hits.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:53 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump ousted Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin on Wednesday in response to heavy criticism and nominated his personal physician, Rear Admiral Ronny Jackson, to replace him in the latest turnover among Trump's team. White House officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Shulkin had become a distraction due to a constant wave of speculation about his future and said he would be leaving in the next day or two. They said an undersecretary at the Department of Defense, Robert Wilkie, will be the acting secretary. Shulkin had drawn fire for a damning report from the inspector general of the Department of Veterans Affairs. It found that during a trip to London and Denmark he improperly accepted tickets to the Wimbledon tennis tournament and his chief of staff made false statements so Shulkin's wife could travel at government expense. One official said the criticism of Shulkin was "making it harder for him to carry out the duties of secretary of the VA, which is something the president has made clear is a big priority for him." Advertisement Jackson, a rear admiral of the U.S. Navy, has been working as a presidential physician since the George W. Bush administration, and has been the lead doctor monitoring Trump's health since Trump became president. Advertisement Jackson gave Trump a clean bill of health early this year after giving the president a physical. He put him on a diet to lose some weight and directed him to get some exercise. Aides said Trump has been eating more fish and fewer cheeseburgers lately. A Texas native who has been on active duty since 1995, Jackson served during the U.S.-led war in Iraq as an emergency medicine physician in Taqaddum, Iraq. "Admiral Jackson is highly trained and qualified and as a service member himself, he has seen firsthand the tremendous sacrifice our veterans make and has a deep appreciation for the debt our great country owes them," Trump said. A White House official said Trump warmed to Jackson and had been aware that Shulkin had sought to make Jackson the VA undersecretary last year. "The president wants somebody who gives him the best possible care to go over and give that same care to the veterans. That's how strongly he feels about getting them represented properly," the official said. Trump said he appreciated Shulkin's work, including passage of the VA Accountability Act."He has been a great supporter of veterans across the country and I am grateful for his service," Trump said in a statement.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. U.S. Representative Phil Roe, a Republican who chairs the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, said he hated to see Shulkin go but respected Trump's decision. "At the end of the day, cabinet secretaries serve at the pleasure of the president," he said. Will Fischer, director of government relations for the VoteVets lobby group, said his group hopes Jackson will oppose any attempt to privatise the VA or its health services, a concept that Republicans talk about occasionally. Advertisement "If Dr. Jackson can do that, immediately, he will do a lot to help his chances at confirmation," Fischer said. The VA oversees healthcare and benefits going to roughly 20 million U.S. military veterans. The Veterans Health Administration, the largest integrated healthcare system in the United States, provides care at more than 1,200 facilities, including 170 VA Medical Centers, to more than 9 million veterans. Trump praised Shulkin as "fantastic" when he chose him to head the VA in January 2017. Trump, who promised improved veterans' care during his presidential campaign, last year said the department had made "tremendous progress" under Shulkin. But support for him at the White House eroded quickly in recent weeks as Trump grew weary of the drumbeat of negative headlines about him. Shulkin said after the release of the inspector general's report that he would comply with its recommendations, including reimbursing the government for his wife's $4,312 airfare and paying his friend for the Wimbledon tickets. The department announced two days after the report was issued that Shulkin's chief of staff, Vivieca Wright Simpson, would retire. Shulkin joins a long list of senior officials who have either resigned or been fired since Trump took office in January 2017. Others include Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price, FBI chief James Comey and FBI No. 2 Andrew McCabe, Trump's chief strategist Steve Bannon, national security advisers H.R. McMaster and Michael Flynn, White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, communications directors Hope Hicks and Anthony Scaramucci, and economic adviser Gary Cohn. (Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Leslie Adler and James Dalgleish) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:54 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump ousted Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin on Wednesday in response to heavy criticism and nominated his personal physician, Rear Admiral Ronny Jackson, to replace him in the latest turnover among Trump's team. White House officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Shulkin had become a distraction due to a constant wave of speculation about his future and said he would be leaving in the next day or two. They said an undersecretary at the Department of Defense, Robert Wilkie, will be the acting secretary. Shulkin had drawn fire for a damning report from the inspector general of the Department of Veterans Affairs. It found that during a trip to London and Denmark he improperly accepted tickets to the Wimbledon tennis tournament and his chief of staff made false statements so Shulkin's wife could travel at government expense. One official said the criticism of Shulkin was "making it harder for him to carry out the duties of secretary of the VA, which is something the president has made clear is a big priority for him." Advertisement Jackson, a rear admiral of the U.S. Navy, has been working as a presidential physician since the George W. Bush administration, and has been the lead doctor monitoring Trump's health since Trump became president. Advertisement Jackson gave Trump a clean bill of health early this year after giving the president a physical. He put him on a diet to lose some weight and directed him to get some exercise. Aides said Trump has been eating more fish and fewer cheeseburgers lately. A Texas native who has been on active duty since 1995, Jackson served during the U.S.-led war in Iraq as an emergency medicine physician in Taqaddum, Iraq. "Admiral Jackson is highly trained and qualified and as a service member himself, he has seen firsthand the tremendous sacrifice our veterans make and has a deep appreciation for the debt our great country owes them," Trump said. A White House official said Trump warmed to Jackson and had been aware that Shulkin had sought to make Jackson the VA undersecretary last year. "The president wants somebody who gives him the best possible care to go over and give that same care to the veterans. That's how strongly he feels about getting them represented properly," the official said. Trump said he appreciated Shulkin's work, including passage of the VA Accountability Act."He has been a great supporter of veterans across the country and I am grateful for his service," Trump said in a statement.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. U.S. Representative Phil Roe, a Republican who chairs the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, said he hated to see Shulkin go but respected Trump's decision. "At the end of the day, cabinet secretaries serve at the pleasure of the president," he said. Will Fischer, director of government relations for the VoteVets lobby group, said his group hopes Jackson will oppose any attempt to privatize the VA or its health services, a concept that Republicans talk about occasionally. Advertisement "If Dr. Jackson can do that, immediately, he will do a lot to help his chances at confirmation," Fischer said. The VA oversees healthcare and benefits going to roughly 20 million U.S. military veterans. The Veterans Health Administration, the largest integrated healthcare system in the United States, provides care at more than 1,200 facilities, including 170 VA Medical Centers, to more than 9 million veterans. Trump praised Shulkin as "fantastic" when he chose him to head the VA in January 2017. Trump, who promised improved veterans' care during his presidential campaign, last year said the department had made "tremendous progress" under Shulkin. But support for him at the White House eroded quickly in recent weeks as Trump grew weary of the drumbeat of negative headlines about him. Shulkin said after the release of the inspector general's report that he would comply with its recommendations, including reimbursing the government for his wife's $4,312 airfare and paying his friend for the Wimbledon tickets. The department announced two days after the report was issued that Shulkin's chief of staff, Vivieca Wright Simpson, would retire. Shulkin joins a long list of senior officials who have either resigned or been fired since Trump took office in January 2017. Others include Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price, FBI chief James Comey and FBI No. 2 Andrew McCabe, Trump's chief strategist Steve Bannon, national security advisers H.R. McMaster and Michael Flynn, White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, communications directors Hope Hicks and Anthony Scaramucci, and economic adviser Gary Cohn. (Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Leslie Adler and James Dalgleish) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By STEVEN KURUTZMARCH 28, 2018
 “The Plaza is such a traditional building,” Lisa Fayne Cohen said, sitting in the high-ceilinged, ornately-plastered living room of her corner apartment in this French Renaissance-style hotel overlooking Central Park. “I felt like it would be so much more exciting to mix that with modern and cutting-edge, contemporary painting.” It’s especially exciting when the paintings include works by Willem de Kooning, Jean Dubuffet, Hans Hofmann, Joan Mitchell, George Condo and the much-sought-after Mark Grotjahn. “Transparent Forms,” a Condo abstract oil on canvas in gorgeous soft pinks and yellows, takes up one wall in the foyer. Turn the corner and there, in the living room, above an emerald green Aldo Tura bar cabinet, hangs the de Kooning, “Woman in Landscape V,” an oil on paper from 1968. “I always wanted a de Kooning,” Ms. Cohen said. “But of course, it took time to find the right size. And I really wanted it to be figurative, of a woman.” Ms. Cohen, who is her in her 50s, and her husband, James Cohen, 59, the owner and chief executive of Hudson News Distributors, began collecting art seriously around 2009, shortly before they purchased this pied-à-terre condominium (their main residence is a Tudor-style home in New Jersey). Collecting art became a pastime for Ms. Cohen, then blossomed into a lifestyle. Advertisement She began traveling the world to educate herself on the contemporary market. She bought blue-chip artists at auctions and art fairs with an eye toward investment, gaining confidence with each big purchase. Advertisement “Any art fair I could get myself invited to, I would go,” she said. “I would go to Paris to FIAC, to Frieze in London, where I bought the George Condo. Of course, Art Basel. I saw the phenomenon of this whole life of traveling and going to these art fairs, seeing the same people on one continent, and a few months later, seeing them on another.” That experience led her and her husband to create the glossy magazine Galerie in 2016. Now published by Sandow, it explores the intersection of art and design. For Ms. Cohen, Galerie’s editorial director, the globe-trotting and art-buying hasn’t slowed. She recently returned from Zona Maco, a leading art fair in Mexico City. “If you see my Instagram it says, ‘Travel the world to discover art,’ ” she said. “It’s a constant journey.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. How do you find the one piece among thousands at an art fair? LISA COHEN Everything that I bought, it talks to me. There’s still a piece that I didn’t get in Mexico City — and it’s still talking to me. Sometimes, I walk away and see if it’s still talking to me, then I know I should go back and get it. What did the Mark Grotjahn painting above the couch say to you? COHEN I’m so proud of this. He had made these butterfly paintings. I started going from show to show, and I would see them in different variations, different colors. This one came up for auction at Christie’s. I was very lucky. Now they’re in the millions, and you can’t get them. Somehow, I’ve been really lucky in picking pieces that have appreciated. From the beginning, I not only wanted to have the best artists. I wanted to have the best representations. Really having the best work of a top artist is even more of a coup. I can say it proudly of this work. Through Galerie and your own efforts, what have you learned about how to live with art? COHEN If you’re lucky enough, you start with the right pieces that really bring the sentiment and the feeling to the space. Then you design around it. Originally, I had the de Kooning on this wall. No offense to Bill de Kooning, but when I saw this Grotjahn piece, I thought, wow, this will tie it all in. The butterfly central spiral brings everything together in the room. What’s the feeling after you buy a piece? COHEN It’s certainly a high. To have a great master painter in your own home elevates you. It just makes you feel so different about the space. When I look at them, I can’t believe I’m living with these incredibly talented artistic people. Is there a blank wall waiting to be filled? And if so, by what? COHEN Well, I’d love to have a Picasso. One of the hardest things about being an art collector is when you start to run low on wall space. There just aren’t enough walls. A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page C12 of the New York edition with the headline: The Art Speaks. She Buys.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 12:03 A.M. E.D.T.
 CURITIBA, Brazil —  Former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva defended his record and called protests against him the work of fascists Wednesday, a day after an attack on his campaign caravan underlined Brazil's deep divisions ahead of heated elections. His left-leaning Workers' Party said gunshots hit two buses in the caravan Tuesday. No one was hurt and da Silva was not on either bus. Police are investigating. The incident comes at a moment of intense division in Brazil after a tumultuous few years that have seen the impeachment and removal from office of one president and the implication of dozens of politicians, including da Silva, in a mammoth corruption scandal. Protests have repeatedly rocked Brazil, and current President Michel Temer warned Wednesday that the violence against da Silva's caravan threatened to destabilize Latin America's largest country. But divisiveness looks likely to increase as Brazil prepares to elect a new president in October. Advertisement Despite a conviction on corruption charges that could see him barred from running, da Silva is the front runner in that race. Yet he is no longer the universally beloved figure he once was after two terms as president. Demonstrations have dogged his 10-day campaign tour through southern Brazil, which tends to be wealthier and more conservative than his political heartland in the northeast. Advertisement At a rally in the southern city of Curitiba on Wednesday night, da Silva described the protesters who sometimes threw rocks and eggs at the caravan and into crowds. "I don't know who they were and I don't care," he told a crowd of a few thousand people. "I just know they were not democrats. They are more like fascists and Nazis; they are more for anything else than for democracy." Several other speakers criticized the rise of "fascists," referring to a growing tide of conservatism in Latin America's largest country, especially the popularity of far-right Congressman Jair Bolsonaro, who held a rival rally in Curitiba on Wednesday. Long considered on the fringe, Bolsonaro has been drawing big crowds with his promises of law and order in uncertain times. He is polling second behind da Silva in an election that has been blown wide open by the widespread disgust of many Brazilians feel for their leaders in the wake of the "Car Wash" corruption investigation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The investigation is, in many ways, at the heart of Brazil's tumult. Prosecutors have alleged that Brazil's government has effectively been run like a cartel for years, with politicians doling out favors, state contracts and plum positions in exchange for bribes and campaign contributions. The probe initially focused on da Silva's Workers' Party, but it has implicated other parties, including Temer's. Temer himself has been accused of corruption, but Congress twice voted to spare him a trial while he remains in office and he denies the charges. While many have cheered the investigation as heroic for its unflinching pursuit of those in the upper echelons of Brazilian politics, some, especially on the left, think it has unfairly targeted the Workers' Party for political reasons. Da Silva himself has said the charges against him are invented and meant to keep him from regaining the presidency. "They know that I know how to fix the country because when I took over Brazil ... this country was in a worse state" than it is now, he told the crowd in Curitiba. Da Silva presided over an economic boom fed by high prices for its commodities, but the economy has slumped since then. Advertisement He said his enemies were telling a slew of lies about him and even took aim at a new Netflix series about the Car Wash probe that has come under fire in recent days for taking liberties with some of its depictions, including of da Silva himself. Da Silva said he would sue the company. In another sign of Brazil's volatility, Supreme Court Justice Edson Fachin, who is the rapporteur in charge of the Car Wash investigation, said in an interview with GloboNews this week that members of his family have received threats. The Supreme Court said Fachin's security detail has been increased and he is allowed to direct his bodyguards to accompany relatives. ___ Associated Press writer Sarah DiLorenzo reported this story from Sao Paulo and AP video journalist Mario Lobao reported from Curitiba. AP video journalist Diarlei Rodrigues in Curitiba contributed to this report. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:05 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  A former Russian intelligence officer who worked with U.S. President Donald Trump's former top campaign officials Paul Manafort and Rick Gates was communicating with Gates late in the 2016 presidential campaign, according to court records filed by Special Counsel Robert Mueller's office. The connection between Gates and the former intelligence officer, identified only as "Person A" in the records filed late on Tuesday, is significant because criminal charges brought against Gates and Manafort relate only to their lobbying work for Ukraine prior to the 2016 U.S. presidential election and do not delve into their activities during the campaign. “The fact that an official who had an important role in the Trump campaign alongside (Paul) Manafort was dealing with an individual who he knew was tied to Russian intelligence is a big deal, as is the fact that Mueller decided to put that card face up on the table at this time,” said a person familiar with Mueller's investigation who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “He’s playing chess, and moving that piece now suggests that no matter what Trump is saying about no collusion, that part of the investigation is still very much alive.” Advertisement The Russian government has denied meddling in the 2016 election, and Trump has denied any collusion by his campaign. Advertisement Gates pleaded guilty last month to lying to the FBI and conspiring to defraud the United States, and he has agreed to cooperate with Mueller's investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and whether there was any collusion with Moscow by Trump's campaign. An attorney for Gates did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Manafort has pleaded not guilty to charges in two indictments filed by Mueller's office. The charges range from bank fraud and filing false tax returns to conspiring to defraud the United States, conspiring to launder money and failing to register as a foreign agent when he lobbied for the pro-Russian government of former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych. Lawyers for Manafort are seeking to dismiss the charges, arguing they have nothing to do with Russian interference and fall outside the scope of what Mueller is supposed to investigate, among other things. A spokesman for Manafort, who is prevented by a court-imposed gag order from talking to the media, declined to comment. GUILTY PLEA Gates' alleged communications with the former intelligence officer were revealed in a sentencing document for former Skadden Arps attorney Alex van der Zwaan. He pleaded guilty earlier this year to lying to the FBI about his interactions with Gates and the former intelligence officer and is to be sentenced on April 3. In the document, prosecutors said Gates and van der Zwaan were in touch with the ex-Russian intelligence officer, who also worked for Manafort's lobbying firm in Ukraine, in September and October 2016. The presidential election was in November 2016.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. They also said that when van der Zwaan was interviewed by the special counsel's office, he "admitted that he knew" about the Russian connection because Gates had told him about it. The description of Person A in the court records appears to match that of Konstantin Kilimnik, a Ukrainian who worked for Manafort. Advertisement In the past, he has denied having ties to Russian intelligence services. Reuters was not able to locate contact information for Kilimnik, and his whereabouts are unknown. The revelation that Gates knew Kilimnik had been a Russian intelligence officer could prove to be the most significant turn in Mueller’s investigation to date, said a person familiar with the probe into whether there was collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Kilimnik also acted as an intermediary between Manafort and Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin. In July 2016 Manafort, then chairman of Trump’s presidential campaign, emailed Kilimnik asking him to offer Deripaska “private briefings” about the campaign, according to the Washington Post. Deripaska has since filed a civil lawsuit in New York state court against Gates and Manafort that accuses them of defrauding him out of an investment deal. The lawsuit claims that Kilimnik graduated from the Military Institute of the Defense Ministry in Moscow. It also says that Kilimnik worked for 10 years in the Moscow office of the International Republican Institute, a U.S. government-funded nonprofit. (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Makini Brice; Additional reporting by John Walcott, Mark Hosenball and Nathan Layne; Editing by Frances Kerry and Cynthia Osterman) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:09 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Harvey Weinstein's former British assistant said Wednesday that a gag order she had to sign when she left his film company was "morally lacking in every way" and failed to stop the movie producer's harassment and abuse of women. Zelda Perkins quit Weinstein's firm Miramax in 1998 along with a colleague who accused the movie mogul of trying to rape her. Each received a 125,000-pound ($177,000) settlement and signed a non-disclosure agreement. Perkins told a committee of British lawmakers that she felt "defrauded" by the agreement, which contained clauses intended to stop Weinstein from sexually harassing or abusing staff. The agreement committed Weinstein to attend therapy and required the company to act if he made any more payouts over alleged wrongdoing. Perkins said she has no evidence that these actions were carried out. Advertisement Multiple women have accused Weinstein of sexual harassment and assault over many years. He denies all allegations of nonconsensual sex. Advertisement "I believed we had done the best we could in terms of stopping his behavior," Perkins told Parliament's Women and Equalities Committee. "Essentially we were defrauded." The committee is investigating sexual harassment and the use of non-disclosure agreements, or NDAs. NDAs are common in the corporate world, but Perkins said her experience shows they can be used to let perpetrators get away with wrongdoing while silencing their victims. "The problem is they are used abusively ... and there isn't enough regulation and there isn't a framework to protect the victims of the situation," she said. The agreement Perkins signed kept her quiet about Weinstein's behavior for almost 20 years. He continued to be one of Hollywood's most powerful producers until last year, when women — including Hollywood stars — publicly accused him of groping, exposing himself to them or forcing them into unwanted sex. Weinstein has since been fired by the company he co-founded and expelled by Hollywood's film academy. Police in the U.S. and Britain are investigating multiple claims of sexual assault. Perkins was in her early 20s and said she had barely heard of Weinstein when she began working for Miramax in London. She called him a challenging employer.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Everybody knew that he had a roving eye and he pushed it with women," she said. He had a fearsome temper and didn't respect usual office boundaries, sometimes walking around naked or in his underwear, she said. "I was 22 and I was like, 'OK, this is what it must be like in the big league,'" Perkins told The Associated Press on Tuesday. "This guy is really important — he doesn't have time to wear his trousers." Advertisement Perkins said she wasn't aware of any allegations of sexual assault until a younger colleague came to her in distress during the 1998 Venice Film Festival and said Weinstein had tried to rape her. The pair flew back to England and went to lawyers "with the presumption that we were going to prosecute him in court." Told they could not prosecute in England because the alleged crime took place in Italy, the two women ended up negotiating a settlement. While Perkins managed to get the agreement to impose conditions on Weinstein, she said the negotiating process "was humiliating and degrading. I was made to feel like I was in the wrong for trying to expose his behavior." She was told she would be held responsible if her family or friends disclosed details of Weinstein's behavior. She couldn't see a therapist unless the therapist also signed a non-disclosure agreement. Perkins was not even allowed to have a copy of the agreement she had signed. Perkins said the experience left her "trapped in a vortex of fear." "I think I'm only just beginning to realize what it stole from me," Perkins said of her experience with Weinstein and his lawyers. "It stole my belief and my confidence in myself and in society." Perkins said the #MeToo and Time's Up movements against harassment and inequality which have erupted in the wake of the Weinstein revelations have made her feel "hugely liberated" and given her faith again in society. "The fact that Harvey was the beginning of this snowball, to me, is just completely thrilling." ___ Follow Jill Lawless on Twitter at http://Twitter.com/JillLawless We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:12 A.M. E.D.T.
 WELLINGTON —  The fitness of all-rounder Ben Stokes will be a key factor for England as they seek to win the second match against New Zealand in Christchurch and improve on a woeful record that has seen them lose 10 of their last 12 overseas tests. Stokes hurt his back during the one-dayers that preceded the two-test series and did not bowl in the first match at Eden Park, which England lost by an innings and 49 runs. The 26-year-old is still undergoing checks to determine whether he is fit to be England's fifth bowler in the second test at Hagley Oval from March 30-April 3, which takes place with the cricket world in uproar over Australia's ball tampering scandal in South Africa. Stokes batted at number five at Eden Park, scoring a patient 66 in the second innings and sharing in several partnerships that had threatened to snatch an unlikely draw after the tourists were bowled out for 58 in their first innings. Advertisement Stokes' knock had showed coach Trevor Bayliss he could comfortably bat in the top-five. "The way he went about it over the last home summer, it stood out that he had the ability to be a world-class number five," Bayliss told reporters earlier this week. "I think we saw that again. Advertisement "When it was tough and under a lot of a pressure, he led from the front doing the hard yards." Stokes' fitness to bowl is likely to determine whether fellow all-rounder Moeen Ali retains his spot, with Bayliss putting the pressure on the off-spinner. Moeen struggled in England's 4-0 Ashes loss in Australia late last year, scoring just 179 runs at 19.88. More importantly, he took just five wickets at an average of 115. Moeen scored 0 and 28 in the first test and was unable to get any appreciable turn on the drop-in pitch at Eden Park. "I'm sure he's disappointed with the way he's gone," Bayliss said. "This winter away I'm sure hasn't gone how he would have liked. I'm sure that will be a discussion." If Stokes is able to bowl, the visitors could give uncapped batsman Liam Livingstone his test debut to strengthen the batting, while left-arm spinner Jack Leach, a late call up for the injured Mason Crane, could also earn his first cap.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. HUGE OPPORTUNITY The match also has huge significance for New Zealand, who have not beaten England in a series since 1999 when they lost the first match at Edgbaston before winning at Lord's and the Oval to clinch the four-match series 2-1. "This is a huge opportunity, you don't go in thinking about drawing it," New Zealand coach Mike Hesson said. "It's been a big series, we've been planning for the last six months and need to make sure we use the next few days wisely." Advertisement Hesson's plans were affected on Wednesday by the withdrawal of legspinner Todd Astle due to a side strain. Astle, who was replaced by Ish Sodhi, took 3-39 in England's second innings, which included two wickets in the final session as New Zealand pushed for victory. The change would lengthen New Zealand's tail with Astle a superior batsman to Sodhi and Tim Southee expected to move up to number eight. Sodhi, however, has been in a rich vein of form since the one-day series with innings hauls of 7-98, 7-30 and 5-32 in two first class matches. "It was good to get a chance to bowl some overs out in the middle so I go into the test, if I get a chance to play, with a bit of momentum ... and some overs under the belt," Sodhi told reporters in Christchurch. "As a young spinner learning your art, the best way to do it is to bowl as much as you can." (Reporting by Greg Stutchbury; Editing by Peter Rutherford) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 8:54 A.M. E.D.T.
 SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Dallas Mavericks forward Harrison Barnes didn't see the group of protesters making their way to Golden1 Center for a second round of protests Tuesday. He only heard they were coming — and he was perfectly fine with it. Outside the arena, demonstrators gathered to protest the March 18 fatal police shooting of Stephon Clark, an unarmed 22-year-old black man who was in his grandparents' backyard. Most fans were prevented from entering Golden1 Center and the team later released a statement saying refunds would be given. It was the second time in six days that protesters forced a lockdown at Golden1 Center. Barnes is hopeful the protests stir debate that he believes is long overdue, not just in Sacramento but around the country. "If they were doing this somewhere else in the city, would they still be garnering the same attention?" Barnes asked following the Mavericks' 103-97 win over the Kings. "Would it be at the front of every opposing team that's coming in here? Would it be national news that the Sacramento Kings are locking fans out of their stadium? Why are they locking fans out of the stadium? Oh, because this young man was killed. Then the dialogue keeps going that way. Advertisement "There's never an easy way that's easy for everyone who's involved to accept it and be on board, but the point is to bring attention to something, to start a debate, and that's what they're doing." Advertisement The Mavericks ended their five-game losing streak behind strong performances from Barnes (20 points, six assists, five rebounds) and Dennis Smith Jr. (19 points, six assists), but the focus remained on the protests. Some fans who arrived early were let in and allowed to move down into the lower bowl of the arena. Although no official attendance was given, the crowd was estimated at around 4,000. That was twice the number of people who were allowed in last Thursday when protesters formed a human chain around the arena and forced the start of the game to be delayed. "Hopefully (the protests) keep the discussion going in all sorts of communities, not only here," Mavericks veteran Dirk Nowitzki said. "It's just unfortunately that things like this continue to happen. Communities need all the help they can get." The Kings have home games slated for Thursday, the same day as Clark's funeral, and Saturday when a march is scheduled. "Despite what's going on, we've still got to do our jobs and come in here and hoop," Sacramento's Willie Cauley-Stein said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Smith played well in his second game back from an ankle injury. Doug McDermott scored seven of his 15 points during a big run in the fourth quarter, and Aaron Harrison and Johnathan Motley had 10 points apiece for the Mavericks. Dallas led by 18 with 3:44 remaining before Sacramento went on a 17-4 run. Buddy Hield had six points as part of the spurt and Frank Mason made two free throws to pull the Kings to 102-97 with 21.9 seconds left. Advertisement Kyle Collinsworth made one of two free throws for the Mavericks to seal the win. Skal Labissiere had 19 points and eight rebounds, and Kosta Koufos scored 15 for Sacramento. TIP-INS Mavericks: Dwight Powell didn't play because of bursitis in his left knee. ... Nowitzki scored five points on 2-of-9 shooting. He went 1 for 7 on 3s. ... JJ Barea did not make the trip due to personal reasons. Nerlens Noel and Dorian Finney-Smith were also held out. Kings: Koufos took advantage of Powell's absence and scored 15 of Sacramento's first 29 points. Koufos entered averaging 6.6 points per game. ... Garrett Temple (sprained left ankle) missed his third straight game. HELPING HAND Barnes' six assists tied his career high set against Brooklyn last Nov. 29. All six came in the first half. "Guys weren't making shots (in the second half)," Barnes said, joking. "No, I just thought we had good movement tonight. Guys were making shots, getting into the flow of things." GLOBETROTTER McDermott scored on a pair of layups in the fourth quarter, one after Collinsworth made a behind-the-back bounce pass. "Kyle hit him on one of those Mark Cuban's premier club behind-the-back bounce passes," Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle said. UP NEXT Mavericks: Play at the Los Angeles Lakers on Wednesday. Kings: Host the Indiana Pacers on Thursday. ___ More NBA basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 11:48 P.M. E.D.T.
 HOUSTON —  Three straight lopsided wins by the Houston Rockets isn't exactly good preparation for the playoffs. However, the Rockets believe their intensity in these games has showcased an important quality of the team. "That's what we as a veteran group are supposed to do," Trevor Ariza said. "We're supposed to play the same way every game no matter who the opponent is. Because at the end of the day it's never about the other team for us. Our mindset has to be that it's always about us." Eric Gordon scored 31 points and tied a career high with eight 3-pointers on a night James Harden sat out to rest, and the Rockets got their 10th straight win with a 118-86 rout of the Chicago Bulls on Tuesday night. Advertisement Ariza added 21 points and Chris Paul had 13 points and 10 assists in his return after missing the last three games with a sore hamstring. Advertisement "It's all about energy and playing at a high level every night no matter who's out, and it's just been fun being around these guys," Gordon said. "Most teams there might be a lack of interest against teams that are not going to the playoffs (but) we still put the pedal to the metal." The NBA-leading Rockets became the first team since San Antonio in the lockout-shortened 2011-12 season to have three winning streaks of at least 10 games in a season. They won 14 in a row from Nov. 16-Dec. 18 and 17 straight from Jan. 28-March 7. Lauri Markkanen returned after missing Saturday's game with lower back spasms and had 22 points for the Bulls, who dropped their sixth straight. "They space the floor so well and are shooting from all over, it puts you in such a tough position," Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg said. "I said the other day, they're fun to watch, but no fun to play against." The Rockets had a 21-point lead at halftime, paced by 24 points from Gordon, and opened the third quarter with a 16-2 run to extend it to 76-41 with 7 1/2 minutes left in the quarter. Ariza had eight points, powered by two 3-pointers in that stretch. The Bulls couldn't do anything right in that span, missing four shots and committing five turnovers, including one on a shot clock violation and another when David Nwaba stepped out of bounds. Nwaba made Chicago's first basket in more than 3 1/2 minutes, but the Rockets scored the next seven points to make it a 40-point lead with just more than five minutes left in the quarter.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After never trailing in their blowout wins over New Orleans and Atlanta, the Rockets spent 13 seconds behind on Tuesday night after Cameron Payne put Chicago up 2-0 with a basket early in the first. Advertisement Gordon's first 3-pointer came next to put Houston up for good. It was the first of a 14-3 run that put the Rockets ahead 14-5 with about 8 1/2 minutes left in the quarter. Markkanen had the next seven points to get Chicago within two, but an 11-2 spurt by Houston followed to extend the lead to 25-14. Chicago cut the lead to eight on a 3-pointer by Denzel Valentine about nine minutes before halftime before the Rockets used a 13-2 run to extend it to 51-32 five minutes later. It was 60-39 at halftime. TIP-INS Bulls: Sean Kilpatrick, who signed a three-year deal on Tuesday, had 12 points and two rebounds. ... Noah Vonleh had 10 points and 12 rebounds. ... Chicago had 18 turnovers. Rockets: Luc Mbah a Moute missed his third straight game with a sore left knee. ... Houston made 18 3-pointers to give them at least 15 in six of the last seven games. ... Tuesday was the third straight game where Houston held its opponent to less than 50 points in the first half. BIG WINS Houston's 32-point win tied its biggest of the season. The Rockets have won 14 games this season by 20 points or more, which is tied for most in franchise history. They've won three straight games by 10 points or more for the first time since Feb. 1-6. GORDON GOING Tuesday was Gordon's fifth 30-point game this season after he had just five 30-point games in the previous four years combined. He's been playing his best basketball over the last five games, averaging 22.4 points on 54 percent shooting. "I think he feels good and has an extra bounce in his step," coach Mike D'Antoni said. "He's playing at a very high level right now." UP NEXT Bulls: Visit Miami on Thursday. Rockets: Host Phoenix on Friday. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Tech We’re Using  By                     
THE NEW YORK TIMES

MARCH 28, 2018
 How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Julie Turkewitz, a correspondent who is based in Denver, discussed the tech she’s using. How often are you on the road on assignment? I’m on the road about a third of the year. I cover a section of the West, which means I spend a lot of time in small towns and on winding mountain roads. I also work breaking news stories all over the country. So that must mean you live out of a suitcase. What are your most essential tech tools for doing your work? My travel bag is a constant work in progress. I try to be prepared for anything, because I never know when a trip is going to involve a surprise sit-down with a governor or an unexpected flight to cover a hurricane. Advertisement For all the talk about the changing media landscape, the most important tools of my job are a pen, a notebook and a way to file the story to my editors. There are still many places in America without cellphone or internet service, so simply communicating with my editors can be a challenge. I’m often filing on a laptop from the back seat of a car on the side of a road over a weak signal through my phone or a mobile hot spot. Advertisement I carry two phones (in case one falls in the mud), a power strip that allows me to charge my computer from the car, and a Canon 5D camera that I bought off a White House photographer years ago. I use my iPhone’s recording app, or a downloadable app called TapeACall, and I will occasionally pay for a transcription service for lengthy interviews. I’ve used both Trint.com and Rev.com. When I’m working on breaking news stories, Twitter is crucial. Law enforcement agencies send out updates through social media, and the first thing I do when I head into a big story is make sure that I'm receiving their new tweets as immediate text messages. Then I use social media to report the texture of the story as it unfolds. Beyond breaking news, I’ve found Twitter to be a great tool for conveying a sense of place. Sometimes a single picture or video can really cut to the heart of a story. 
            Just met Gloria Quintanilla. She's an immigrant frm El Salvador who spent more than an hr wading thru this to get to work at the Doubletree. pic.twitter.com/rwTeDVuupZ  Lastly, roving reporters have to take care of themselves. I travel with an extra thin yoga mat from Manduka that packs down to the size of a book. Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. What could be better? We need longer-lasting batteries. Battery life is a constant source of stress for reporters in the field. You’ve reported extensively on the Parkland, Fla., school shooting and many other such shootings. After Parkland, the survivors used Twitter and other outlets to speak out about gun control. Do you foresee this use of social media having any effect on gun control regulations? Advertisement We’re already seeing that happen. Several of the Parkland students now have tens of thousands of followers on Twitter, and they have been using that tool to speak directly to people in power. And when Gov. Rick Scott of Florida passed a major gun bill recently, he credited the students for making it possible. I’m curious to see what’s next. Will social media messaging continue to be as powerful as the weeks go on? And how will students deal with their new roles as survivors, advocates and public figures? Has tech affected how you research and investigate the people you write about? Social media has expanded the reporter-subject relationship, making it more personal, and allowing for interaction beyond the life of a particular story. This means that I sometimes contact people on Facebook to ask for an interview, and stay connected to them for weeks or months. As a reporter covering a vast region — and as someone who focuses on capturing national narratives and sentiments — I find social media to be a helpful way to avoid a news bubble. It keeps me connected to Montana and Utah and Wyoming even when I can’t be there. Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with using in your daily life? Audible audiobooks and Spotify playlists have gotten me through many a road trip. But my current obsession is taking time off from technology. As someone who spends a lot of time linked to the internet, I try to spend off-days away from devices. I buy books. I keep a physical calendar, not a digital one. I get two papers on Sundays and have several magazine subscriptions. And I try to spend as much non-travel time in face-to-face conversations with friends and family. Follow Julie Turkewitz on Twitter: @julieturkewitz A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: In the Wide Open West, Being Ready for Anything.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:21 A.M. E.D.T.
 BRISBANE, Australia —  Young cricketers across the country have been swept up in the discontent as a chorus of politicians, pundits and players demanded strong action in the wake of a cheating scandal that has rocked the foundations of a national institution — the Australian cricket team. With their heroes being humbled, junior players and their families and friends are having their versions of the "Say it ain't so?" moment. Australia captain Steve Smith and vice captain David Warner have been suspended for 12 months and Cameron Bancroft has banned for nine months. They've all been sent home from South Africa for their roles in a clumsy ball-tampering attempt during the third test match against South Africa last weekend. Given the chance, 12-year-old Benji Harris would ask Smith outright:  "Why did you do it?" Benji, a right-arm wrist spinner from Sydney's inner west who plays — he estimates — about 40 matches each year, didn't think the Australians needed to cheat to win. That has been a common theme. Advertisement Shannon O'Connell is a junior coach and his sons Riley and Aidan both play at the Valley District Cricket Club in Brisbane, where the likes of former international captains Allan Border and Kepler Wessels were registered and where Australia coach Darren Lehmann has a family connection. Advertisement The O'Connells wondered why leading players needed to conspire to tamper with the ball when the Aussie bowlers were clearly in good form following a 4-0 Ashes series victory and a win to open the four-match series in South Africa. Some of the English players have posed the same question. And that's what makes Benji Harris mad. The Australian players "have said things about other people cheating," he said. "I thought if they're saying these things, they obviously don't cheat." The cricket season usually finishes at the end of the Australian summer when attention turns to the various football leagues. But because cricket is the only sport that truly unites every state for a full season, the cheating scandal has been a hot topic among mates, at schools and around family dinner tables. What constitutes the so-called Spirit of Cricket is being widely debated. This is, after all, serious stuff in a sports-mad country where the job of the test cricket captain is only half-jokingly considered by some to be on level terms with the Prime Minister. A long-time pacesetter in cricket, Australian teams have forged themselves as being the yardstick of the firm but fair approach, but the mantra about "not crossing the line" between right and wrong has recently become a hollow refrain. Clearly, there was no such line in the locker room during a break in play in the third cricket test in Cape Town last weekend when — according to a Cricket Australia investigation — Warner instigated a tampering plan and instructed Bancroft how to do it. Smith didn't do enough to prevent it. The whole episode has been widely deemed as inexcusable. Kids like Benji are finding it tough. He's been playing the game competitively for six years, but says he's "loved it for much longer than that." The Harris family had cherished a photo of Benji and his two brothers taken with Smith — wearing his Big Bash League Twenty20 league uniform — in 2013.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The photograph isn't taking pride of place right now, although Benji believes eventually the angry public should forgive the players. Advertisement "But it's hard to because they've done such a thing that has put a label on the whole of Australia, that we are cheaters," he said. "It's not the whole of Australia that has done this. So It's hard to forgive them for putting something on us that we haven't done." Some say the situation has been blown out of proportion, highlighting how stars of the game from other countries have either admitted to or been charged or found guilty of tampering with the ball during international matches, but rarely faced a sanction of more than one or two games. Smith cannot be considered for selection as Australia captain for at least two years as part of his punishment. Warner will never be considered again for a leadership role in Australia. "I've heard so many instances of things like that but what (the Australians) did was a lot worse," Benji said. "They stepped over the line by a long way." Riley O'Connell, who will be 16 next month and has played 11 seasons of cricket, was watching the game on TV when he noticed Bancroft's bungled attempt to change the condition of the ball. He's a pace bowler, so he's aware how having one rough side can help with swinging the ball. His first thought was that Bancroft may have been subtly coerced, similar to the way that rookie players are often placed in the more dangerous fielding positions close to the bat, or that he felt his selection may have been in jeopardy if he didn't go along with it. Regardless, Riley saw it as a reflection of a poor team culture and an immature captain. He said he knows what the game of cricket should be about through reinforcement from his parents and his grandfather, a long-time player and coach, and emphasis on the spirit of the game from coaches in the younger age groups. "You could tell they were doing something that shouldn't be done," he said. "I've seen other international teams doing it (but) it's not in the spirit of the game. "It made me angry, yeah. You're picked to represent your country — you're supposed to represent what they stand for." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:27 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  Omarosa Manigault Newman once predicted that "every critic, every detractor will have to bow down to President Trump." The question now for the former White House aide and "Apprentice" contestant is whether that applies to her, too. Starring in another reality TV show after resigning from the West Wing, Manigault Newman unleashed one criticism after another of her longtime friend Donald Trump and former White House colleagues, testing the widely held view that few people are ever really exiled from Trump's orbit. Manigault Newman said she was "haunted" every day by Trump's tweets and "attacked" by colleagues when she tried to intervene. She said he tweets in his underwear in the early morning. She compared leaving the White House to being freed from a plantation, a reference to her one-time status as the only black member of the White House senior staff. If that wasn't enough, she said the country will not be OK under Trump, and teased that she may tell everything in a book. Advertisement The ill feelings may well be mutual. Trump, who called Manigault Newman a "good person" after she left the White House, referred to her as "the worst" in a speech at a press dinner where the president traditionally jabs at friends and foes alike. Advertisement The White House dismisses Manigault Newman as someone Trump has now fired four times: thrice from "The Apprentice" and once from the White House last December. Armstrong Williams, a longtime friend of Manigault Newman, said the fact that Trump name-checked her in the Gridiron dinner speech this month "means she's on his mind." He doesn't think she had fallen out of favor because of her nationally broadcast criticisms. "Here's the key: The president has not tweeted about anything that Omarosa has done since she left. That's significant," said Williams, a conservative commentator. "He's tweeted about (Steve) Bannon and everybody else, but he has not tweeted or pushed back in any way against Omarosa." Bannon is the former White House chief strategist whom Trump publicly broke with after a book about Trump's first year in office quoted Bannon criticizing some of Trump's adult children. Trump then accused Bannon of "losing his mind." Others fired by Trump, including his first campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, and his first chief of staff, Reince Priebus, remain in contact with the president. During her stint on CBS' "Celebrity Big Brother," where Manigault Newman and other celebrities lived under constant surveillance in a shared house until voted out, she steered clear of Trump's third rail, his family. But she let loose on the president and Vice President Mike Pence. In one whispered conversation, she said working for Trump was "like a call to duty," but "I was haunted by the tweets every single day, like 'What is he going to tweet next?'" When she tried to intervene, Manigault Newman said through tears, "all of the people around him attacked me."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When asked if people should be worried, Manigault Newman nodded her head and said, "It is going to not be OK. It's not." Advertisement She criticized Pence in a later episode, saying he'd be more extreme than Trump. "So everybody that's wishing for impeachment might want to reconsider their lives. We would be begging for days of Trump back if Pence became president," she said. "He's extreme. I'm Christian. I love Jesus. But he thinks Jesus tells him to say things. I'm like, 'Jesus ain't saying that.'" The conversations eventually came around to Trump's tweets. Manigault Newman was asked who monitors them. "He's up in his underwear or something at 4 in the morning. Who's going to monitor that?" she said. "Remember, the bad tweets happen between 4 and 6 in the morning. Ain't nobody up there but Melania" — Trump's wife. Manigault Newman then commented on the large diamond the first lady wears on her left ring finger and said Trump "can do whatever he wants. She ain't saying nothing." It was unclear whether her criticisms were genuine or whether she was trying to curry favor with her castmates to avoid eviction. (She didn't win.) Manigualt Newman, who declined to comment for this story, passed up a chance to repeat her criticisms during a recent appearance on "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert" after the reality TV show ended. When asked if everything will be OK under Trump, she told Colbert, "You'll have to wait and see." She did tell Colbert that she plans to focus on her ministry. Last April, she married John Allen Newman, senior pastor at a Baptist church in Jacksonville, Florida, during a ceremony at Trump's hotel near the White House. The website of Mount Calvary Baptist Church says she was licensed to preach in 2011 and later ordained and served as assistant pastor. "My calling to the ministry is more important than anything else that I've done and I don't want to neglect it," Manigault Newman told Colbert. Whether that means she's done bashing Trump remains to be seen. In her first interview after leaving the White House, she told ABC's "Good Morning America" that "when I can tell my story, it is a profound story that I know the world will want to hear." ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist Which would you rather have, a Donald Trump Wall or a Donald Trump Military Parade? No fair saying neither. Trump’s been pushing hard for both, and sooner or later the man has to win something. So if you had to choose, which way would you go? A. Parade, but there should be floats. B. Wall, but maybe around Mar-a-Lago. C. I don’t care as long as he doesn’t bomb anybody. Reasonable answers! And I’ll give you an advance hint of how it’s working out: The wall option is toast. Congress passed its big spending package last week, and the president’s request for wall money was ignored like a burp at a dinner party. All Trump got was $1.6 billion for stuff like fence repair. “I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill” Trump tweeted, complaining that “the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded.” “Not fully funded” is a euphemism for “totally ignored.” Twittering Trump also bitterly complained that Congress had not done anything about DACA reform — protection for the people who were brought here illegally as children. That was, indeed, strange on two points. You’d think the Democrats would have tried to do something. But the Dreamers are safe now because of court orders, and their supporters think they’ve got more time to work the problem out. Much stranger was the fact that the guy demanding security for the Dreamers was exactly the president who had killed the DACA protection program in the first place. Why was he getting so worked up? Excellent question! This sort of total transformation happens a lot in this White House. I feel the best explanation is that our president is occasionally taken over by a benevolent alien entity who changes his entire personality. Remember that bipartisan immigration get-together he held back in January? When he begged members of Congress to pass “a bill of love” that would take care of those very same Dreamers? It was a swell moment. After which, the alien floated away, Trump retracted everything and made the famous remark about people from “shithole” countries. During the spending negotiations, maybe the alien entity was taking Trump on a visit to other dimensions. That would explain why the president had absolutely no clue as to what had been going on during the meetings, which had been attended by members of his staff. When it came time for the threatened veto, Trump transformed again, announcing he had to sign the spending plan because it included desperately needed funds for the military. But to prevent anything this dreadful from ever happening in the future, Trump added that he was “calling on Congress to give me a line-item veto for all government spending bills.” After members of the House and Senate finished rolling around on the floor laughing, the world moved forward. Except for Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, who told a Fox interviewer that he thought it would indeed be a good idea to allow the president to wipe out any pieces of the congressional budget that he didn’t like. When informed that line-item veto power had been declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, Mnuchin said, “Well, again, Congress could pass a rule, O.K., that allows them to do it.” This is an administration that goes through high-ranking officials like Raisinettes at a movie. And yet Steve Mnuchin is still here. So the spending negotiations were a disaster for the wall warriors. “How about going to Mexico and getting them to pay for it?” said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer cruelly. We have listened to several conversations between Trump and the president of Mexico on this subject, all of which can be translated into: Trump: “Look, all I’m asking is that you just don’t say you won’t pay for it. President of Mexico: “Hahahaha. …” But our chief executive does not give up! Trump came back with a stern tweet announcing that the Defense Department could build his wall, since, thanks to the new budget, “our Military is again rich.” Clearly, there’s an alien entity somewhere in this: Trump threatened to veto the spending package, then announced he’d sign it only because it contained desperately needed funds for the impoverished military. Now, just a couple of days later, he feels that the Pentagon is swimming in so much extra cash it can afford to blow some on building a barrier along a border that has been stable since 1853. The Department of Defense seems about as enthusiastic about paying for the wall as Mexico is. So, what next? Well, the military is going to give Trump that parade he wants. On Veterans Day. It’s billed as a no-tanks-invited celebration of the contributions of veterans from the Revolutionary War to the present. No mention of floats, but I could definitely imagine something nice involving the cast from “Hamilton.” Not a bad trade. Everybody wants to honor veterans, and perhaps some concerned citizens will think about staging parades of their own, pointing out that the most important thing America owes its men and women in uniform is not to get them stuck in unnecessary conflicts. And if anybody can come up with a float celebrating Trump’s bone spurs. … I invite you to join me on Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:51 P.M. E.D.T.
 JOHANNESBURG —  Australia coach Darren Lehmann has apologised to the public and called for forgiveness for the "grave mistake" made by the trio of test players banned for their role in the ball-tampering scandal that has rocked the sport. He promised a change in approach to the game from Australia, reeling not only from the scandal but accusations of boorish behaviour and playing contrary to the spirit of the game. An emotional Lehmann, cleared of any wrongdoing by a Cricket Australia investigation, told reporters on Wednesday that the banned players, Steve Smith, David Warner and Cameron Bancroft, were "not bad people" and called for them to be given a second chance as he expressed concerns over their mental state. The coach also said the team would need to improve their behaviour on and off the pitch in order to win back fan respect after Bancroft was caught tampering with the ball in the 322-run third test defeat by South Africa at Newlands. Advertisement "I would like to apologise to the Australian public and the cricket family. What happened on Saturday is not something that is acceptable from the Australian cricket team,” Lehmann told a news conference restricted to Australian media. Advertisement "The players involved have been handed down various serious sanctions and they know they must face the consequences. They have made a very grave mistake, but they are not bad people." Smith and Warner, who have been sacked as captain and vice-captain respectively, were banned for 12 months, while opening batsman Bancroft was suspended for nine months. HUMAN SIDE "As a coach you feel for them as people," added Lehmann. "They are hurting and I feel for them and their families. "There is a human side of this. These are young men and I hope people will give them a second chance. Their health and well-being is extremely important to us. "I worry about the three guys immensely. We love all of our players and they are going through a really tough time. "I'm not going to resign. We need to change how we play. Previously we butted heads but that's not the way to play going forward. I need to change," he said. However, Lehmann avoided a question over whether he was responsible, as many pundits have suggested, for the 'in-your-face' style of the Australian team. Advertisement The coach reiterated that the first he knew of the ball-tampering incident was when he saw it on the big screen at Newlands, and said he was confident it was a one-off incident and had not been part of the team’s playing culture in the past.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The first I saw of it was on that screen, I got straight on the walky-talky and said something. There were a couple of expletives in there. Then I spoke to the players at tea time and said we would deal with it at the end of play, which happened through the process. "I am confident it is an isolated issue and a grave mistake. It’s never happened before in speaking to those guys." TRIO BACKED Contrary to various media reports, Lehmann said the trio of players had the backing of the entire team, despite their actions. "When you lose three men in your team, who obviously made a mistake, that hurts all of us. Saying goodbye to them is difficult. "The whole group is upset and we understand the enormity of it and the public perception. We have to try and win the fans back over and play the best cricket we can. "If we take a leaf out of someone like New Zealand... we push the boundaries on the ground, so we need to make sure we are respecting the game and its traditions." Lehmann also backed Smith to resume his international career when he had served his 12-month suspension. "He is going to come back a better person, there is no doubt about that. To see the hurt in him over the last three or four days, you just feel for him." Advertisement Lehmann was speaking to Australian media only, after local South African journalists and international news agencies were barred from the news conference. Cricket Australia later supplied other media, including Reuters, with an audio file of the proceedings. "It is not unusual for travelling teams to hold exclusives for their travelling media contingent. It’s as simple as that," CA spokesman Tim Whittaker said of the exclusion. (Reporting by Nick Said; Editing by Ken Ferris) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:57 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN FRANCISCO —  Two days shy of opening day, the Giants and Athletics got promising performances from some pitchers while reeling from injuries to others. Chris Stratton pitched four-hit ball over five innings to lift San Francisco over Oakland 3-0 in the finale of the three-game Bay Bridge exhibition series Tuesday night. The A's also got a solid outing from Trevor Cahill, who pitched three scoreless innings in his second appearance this spring after signing with the team last week. It was a little bit of good news as both teams took hits to already injury-depleted starting rotations. Advertisement The A's learned that A.J. Puk has hurt his left pitching elbow, and Dr. James Andrews is recommending he have Tommy John surgery. Advertisement Puk was diagnosed with an injury to his ulnar collateral ligament by Dr. Doug Freedberg in Arizona, and Andrews was consulted to confirm the 22-year-old's injury. The Giants are facing similar circumstances. Pitcher Julian Fernandez was diagnosed with a UCL injury, manager Bruce Bochy said. The hard-throwing 22-year-old is seeking a second opinion, but will start the season on the DL. Fernandez is the third Giants pitcher who will start the season on the DL, joining ace Madison Bumgarner (fractured left pinky) and Jeff Samardzija (strained pectoral). Puk, considered among of baseball's top pitching prospects, is the second A's pitcher projected to be a part of the starting rotation who diagnosed with a UCL injury this spring. Jharel Cotton had Tommy John surgery last Wednesday. Paul Blackburn is out with forearm tightness and is expected to miss the early part of the season, too. "The hits just keep on coming as far as the rotation goes," A's manager Bob Melvin said. "First and foremost you feel sorry for him. He's a young guy. Typically when these things happen these guys come back as strong if not stronger than ever. And I know he's going to work hard to get back and pitch in the fashion he was." Bochy announced relievers Pierce Johnson and Roberto Gomez, outfielders Gregor Blanco and Gorkys Hernandez, and utilityman Kelby Tomlinson will break camp with the team. Advertisement The Giants will option outfielder Steven Duggar and infielder Josh Rutledge to Triple-A Fresno. Giants closer Mark Melancon's status for opening day is uncertain. The 33-year-old closer had right forearm surgery last September and is still recovering. He threw on flat ground Tuesday and is expected to do so again Wednesday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "When he throws (Wednesday), we'll know," Bochy said of Melancon's playing status for opening day. Melvin said the A's would announce their final roster moves Wednesday. The A's (14-16) completed their third straight losing spring training. They've had three or more straight losing springs three times in Oakland history (1974-77 and 2009-11). GETTING DEFENSIVE With Stratton facing a bases-loaded, no-outs situation in the top of the first inning, third baseman Evan Longoria started a 5-2-3 double play. Shortstop Brandon Crawford later made a leaping catch on a line drive over his head off Bruce Maxwell's bat in the fourth. "They definitely helped get us out of some jams and kept us in the game," Stratton said. "I think it's going to be a big part of our team this year." RELIEF Giants relievers Josh Osich, Cory Gearrin, Sam Dyson, Johnson and Derek Law combined on four innings of two-hit ball. The A's bullpen was sharp, too, as Liam Hendricks, Cahill and Frankie Montas combined for eight strikeouts in 4 1/3 scoreless innings. TRAINER'S ROOM Giants: Samardzija will throw on flat surfaces Wednesday and Thursday, Bochy said. UP NEXT Advertisement Athletics: RHP Kendall Graveman will make his second consecutive Opening Day start on Thursday against the Los Angeles Angels in Oakland. Giants: LHP Ty Blach will make his first career Opening Day start against LHP Clayton Kershaw and the Dodgers in Los Angeles. ___ More AP baseball coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 

 Karen Crouse
 
 
ON GOLF
MARCH 28, 2018
 RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. — As a carefree 13-year-old, Michelle Wie used the grand stage here in Rancho Mirage to declare her intentions to “go play L.P.G.A. full time and then try to go to the PGA.” It was 2003, and Wie played grown-up golf between giggling discourses on Oreo cookies and Krispy Kreme doughnuts. Wie, 28, will make her 14th start at Mission Hills Country Club this week in the ANA Inspiration, the women’s first major of the year. Her performance now, she said, is fueled by avocado toast. Her appearance in the tournament has always been marked by boundless public curiosity and burdensome expectations. But never before has Wie arrived at this point of the season with an L.P.G.A. victory already in her pocket. Wie said her win this month at the Women’s World Championship in Singapore — her fifth over all and her first since the 2014 United States Women’s Open — had not increased her anticipation of the ANA. “I look forward to this event every year,” she said Tuesday, as she prepared to seek her second major championship. Advertisement In contrast with her demeanor in recent years, Wie exuded a peaceful, easy feeling during her media availability, punctuating many of her answers with a laughter that called to mind the buoyant teen that she was before the game crippled her body and crushed her confidence. Advertisement She ultimately played in eight events on the PGA Tour, and made the cut in a men’s tournament on the Asian Tour. Wie has not crossed over since 2008, the year before she became a full-fledged member of the L.P.G.A. tour and won her first tournament. By most estimations, that victory was long overdue, and Wie’s career had been undermined by overreach. After her recent win in Singapore, Wie conveyed a message to her management team: “The first thing I said to my agents and everyone was just, ‘Let’s just simmer down on the expectations and the hype and everything.’” Wie still competes occasionally with men, but only informally and when she is home in Jupiter, Fla. She practices alongside the likes of Justin Thomas and Rickie Fowler, whose fearlessness in attacking the course has helped her reconnect with her younger, undaunted self. “I think a lot on the golf course, I worry about the outcome,” Wie said. “The guys, they care, obviously, but they are a lot more aggressive. I’ve talked to a couple of them, and they said, ‘If it goes in the hazard, it goes in the hazard.’” They approach golf “more like a game,” she said. With her booming drives and towering goals, the teenage Wie attracted a huge following — and a sizable endorsement portfolio after she turned professional, just days before her 16th birthday. She was projected as the Tiger Woods of women’s golf, the transcendent talent who would transform the game, and she struggled under the weight of those expectations. The joy with which she approached the sport dissipated over time, giving way to a world-weary drudgery. “I’ve always been an over-thinker,” Wie said, adding that as a youngster she “just masked it well.” The road to adulthood can be rough for any adolescent, but especially one negotiating the path with the world watching, and critiquing every step. Advertisement “We accumulate fear, we accumulate overthinking,” Wie said. “Sometimes you have to knock it back down and just kind of be free and have fun.” As a child, Wie idolized Woods, who is now her neighbor in Jupiter. And like him, she has come to inhabit a body troubled by overuse injuries, exacerbated by forceful golf swings. Since 2014, Wie has struggled with finger, hip, ankle, neck and wrist problems. “Every time we see each other we list off all the things: How’s your ankle, how’s your back, how’s everything?” Wie said, referring to Woods. “It’s a 20-minute conversation, and then we can move on from there.” Wie withdrew from last year’s U.S. Women’s Open early in her second round because of neck pain. She played in three more tournaments in July and August before taking all of September off to allow her body time to heal. When she returned, it was with a new outlook, and a new look. Driven by boredom, Wie said with a laugh, she cut her long black hair and became a platinum blonde. One of Wie’s cohorts, Brittany Lincicome, barely recognized her at a tournament this year — because her game had changed quite a bit, too. “In the past, you would wait until the explosion happened or she would hit it out of play or do something really bad and make a really big number,” said Lincicome, who played in a group with Wie. “But this last time I played with her, every shot was down the middle. She was in play every time.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Her accuracy off the tee wasn’t the only part of Wie’s game that impressed Lincicome, one of the tour’s longer drivers. “Her putting is fantastic,” she said. “I told her when we played a couple weeks ago I wanted her as my Solheim partner, because she literally from 20, 15 feet, was making every single thing,” Lincicome added, referring to the biennial team event between players from Europe and the United States. “I was like, ‘I’ll drive it, you putt it, and we’ll win.” Wie ranked outside the top 40 in putting on the tour’s last year, but is now tied for ninth. In Singapore she secured victory by sinking a birdie putt of at least  35 feet on the final hole. Advertisement Wie said her injuries, strangely, had helped make her a better putter. To stay healthy, she has scaled back her range sessions. “I’m trying not to hit golf balls,” Wie said, adding, “I love to grind, so I focus all of my energy on the putting green.” Wie is no longer chasing history. She’s in no rush to solidify her legacy. “My main focus is staying healthy,” she said, “and we’ll just take it on from there.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JON CARAMANICAMARCH 28, 2018
 NASHVILLE — A couple of years back, after almost a decade in Nashville, Ashley McBryde had gained just enough traction to begin taking meetings with record labels. The conversations were, as they often are, dispiriting. She was advised to lose 20 pounds. For the cover of her 2016 EP, “Jalopies & Expensive Guitars,” she straightened her curly hair. The songs on it were, for the most part, ones she’d written for other people, not herself. Despite these concessions, she was realistic, as she conceded one recent afternoon at her manager’s office here, gripping one in a series of beer cans: “It was a possibility that this item that’s being introduced to this petri dish will be rejected by the host.” And initially it was. “We were trying to play the game,” she said with a shrug. Striking out, though, was a lucky setback, encouraging Ms. McBryde, 34, to instead emphasize what set her apart: Her hair went back to curly, her tattoos multiplied, her songwriting became even more intimate — and she kept the most bruised ones for herself. This reinvigorated version of Ms. McBryde is the one on display on her vivid and accomplished major-label debut album “Girl Going Nowhere,” due on Friday, which is among the most varied, warm and effortlessly confident country music albums of the past few years. Ms. McBryde is an alluringly flexible singer, fluent in classic country, blues and Southern rock, with a voice that moves easily from tender to tough. Advertisement It is also, for a contemporary major-label country release, refreshingly unmanipulated. “There’s no Auto-Tune anywhere on that thing,” she said. “We decided not to neuter it. That’s not to say that anything that’s Auto-Tuned has been neutered — for me it is.” Ms. McBryde’s stories — she has a writing credit on all 11 songs — are lush with emotional detail. “A Little Dive Bar in Dahlonega,” the lead single, was released last May, before she had a record deal, and it crackles with hopeful melancholy: “To the flat broke, couch cushion gas money/The worker bee that ain’t getting no honey.” “Andy (I Can’t Live Without You),” her most potent love song, is, she said, written about her old roommate and bandmate, not a romantic partner: “You use my good towels on the dog/And that’s the only thing I’ve asked you not to do.” Advertisement The defiant but coolly controlled “Girl Goin’ Nowhere,” which opens the album, captures the sting of being told you’ll never make it, inspired by a cruel high school math teacher. Her father gave her the coat she sings about in “The Jacket”: “This thing is 2,000 bonfires, hitchhike to Boulder/It’s kept a million raindrops off your mother’s shoulders.” Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The album was produced by Jay Joyce, who has worked with Eric Church and Little Big Town, and Ms. McBryde’s music carries an eclecticism honed in the Memphis bars she used to play: A song about rural meth addiction, “Livin’ Next to Leroy,” is infused with Lynyrd Skynyrd, and there are hints of Springsteen on “El Dorado.” Born in Waldron, Ark., Ms. McBryde was raised on a 400-acre cattle farm on the other side of the state, in Mammoth Spring. As a child, she traveled with her mother to bluegrass festivals, where she found an early mentor in the musician Carl Jackson. She attended Arkansas State University in Jonesboro to play French horn and study to be a band director. After getting comfortable playing in Memphis, she’d begun taking weekend trips to Nashville, leading one of her college instructors, seeing her divided loyalties between her studies and her ambitions, to offer some unsolicited, uncomfortable advice. “He said, ‘You’re skinny, you’re pretty, and I think things will happen for you, and in five years you’ll be fat and nobody’ll care,’” Ms. McBryde recalled. “That’s a weird way to say ‘I give you my blessing.’” She dropped out that day. Like most sharp songwriters, Ms. McBryde has a keen sense of whom she is writing for. “Fat and Famous,” an uproarious song from her 2016 EP, was written for her 10th high school reunion and targeted the mean girls. An old loosie, “Burning Down Chicago,” was partly inspired by a woman who, in the middle of one of Ms. McBryde’s bar performances, pulled a photo out of her wallet, laid it in an ashtray and set it ablaze. “There’s a few people that I write with that we don’t stop until one of us cries,” she said. But in Nashville especially, there is a chasm between songwriter and performer, and Ms. McBryde is still smarting at the fact that her songwriting career never took flight. (She’s had a publishing deal for three years.) In a two-hour conversation, she only blanched once, at the fact that until the end of last year no one had recorded one of her songs. “Wow, I wish we could smoke in here,” she said. Advertisement But perhaps if Ms. McBryde had found songwriting lucrative, she would have missed out on becoming the artist she is today. (Before “Girl Going Nowhere,” she self-released two albums and an EP; the first of those albums is largely gone from the internet, the victim of “natural selection,” she joked.) In that slow-moving country radio way, “Dahlonega,” which initially came out 10 months ago, is only just now gaining traction; it’s currently at No. 33 on the Billboard country airplay chart. In the past year, she’s sung with Eric Church, performed at the Ryman and recently toured as an opening act for Miranda Lambert. “She’s got brass balls,” Ms. McBryde said of Ms. Lambert. “She is a strong-personality female and chose to let a strong-personality female open the show.” But she is still living on the stipend from her publishing contract, and she has yet to pay herself for a concert. She resides in Watertown, a city of about 1,500 an hour east of Nashville, in a cabin on a 27-acre lot that also includes a horse barn. She’s craving a new bed, and wants to replace the ceiling fan that kicks out a spark every time it turns on. But when she goes to the local bar — the one where no one knew she was a professional singer before she recorded the “Dahlonega” video there — she orders a double Jim Beam and ginger ale and the Texas Pete hot wings, and doesn’t have to worry about being anyone but herself. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page C2 of the New York edition with the headline: Taking Nashville, No Gimmicks Required.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By BRET STEPHENSMARCH 28, 2018
 THE RETURN OF MARCO POLO’S WORLD War, Strategy, and American Interests in the Twenty-First Century By Robert D. Kaplan 280 pp. Random House. $28. The 1990s: Remember them? The decade began with the collapse of the Soviet Union. It ended with the Dow bursting past the 10,000 mark. In between, we got victory in the gulf, the creation of the European Union and the World Trade Organization, NATO enlargement, an American budget surplus, peace in Northern Ireland, Google, victory in the Balkans and (Charles Barkley aside) a world firmly united in wanting to be “like Mike.” Good times. Or so they seemed. In 1994, Robert D. Kaplan, a foreign correspondent who had cut his teeth covering the Balkans, the Iran-Iraq war and the famine in Ethiopia, wrote an influential essay in The Atlantic warning of “The Coming Anarchy.” If, as Francis Fukuyama thought, we had entered a “posthistorical” era of bourgeois comfort and democratic legitimacy, it was an era whose bounties relatively few shared. The rest, Kaplan wrote, “will be stuck in history, living in shantytowns where attempts to rise above poverty, cultural dysfunction and ethnic strife will be doomed by a lack of water to drink, soil to till and space to survive in.” History has not vindicated every aspect of Kaplan’s thesis — Pakistan and India, for instance, haven’t fallen apart, despite the essay’s suggestion that they might, and most measures of human welfare continue to show progress. But his general pessimism about the world that lay in wait in the 21st century now looks remarkably prescient, at least next to the Pollyannaish forecasts of techno-optimists, democracy promoters and globalization enthusiasts. Advertisement That’s reason to welcome “The Return of Marco Polo’s World,” an eclectic collection of elegant and humane essays, all but one of which previously appeared in The Atlantic and other publications over the past dozen or so years. Kaplan’s interests run wide: the ethnic tangles of Central Asia; the political thought of Samuel Huntington; the unsung heroism of Medal of Honor winners; the prospect of war on the Korean Peninsula. Above all there is his fascination with the decisive impact of geography on the calculations, ambitions and illusions of statesmen and societies. Advertisement Take the Mediterranean. For half a millennium, it mostly separated not only two continents but also two civilizations: Christendom and Islam. Yet the collapse of political order throughout much of the Maghreb has reminded millions of Africans that the Middle Sea isn’t so wide after all. Thousands have drowned trying to cross it; many more have succeeded, with cumulative effects on what we used to think of as European society. “We are back to a much older cartography that recalls the High Middle Ages, in which ‘the East’ did not begin in any one particular place because regions overlapped and were more vaguely defined,” Kaplan writes. “The dichotomy of the Orient and the Occident is breaking down the world over, even as subtle gradations continue to persist.” What’s true in the Mediterranean basin is true in other places, too — and in other ways. Russia’s 2014 invasion of Ukraine (and the West’s de facto acquiescence in it) is the most visible evidence of the flimsiness of the post-Cold War’s national borders. But what about covert Russian influence peddling in places like Bulgaria; or overt influence peddling through the Russia Today “news” channel; or cyberoperations, via Twitter and Facebook, to disrupt and undermine Western elections? After the Cold War, many of us naïvely assumed that the communications revolution would be the vehicle through which the West would spread its values, attitudes and tastes to the rest of the world. We forgot that the revolution worked in the opposite direction as well: that for every Google executive fighting for political liberalization in Cairo, there might also be an alienated young Islamist in the West learning how to build a bomb by reading Inspire, Al Qaeda’s slick online magazine. Kaplan never loses sight of this fluidity: “The smaller the world actually becomes because of the advance of technology,” he writes, “the more permeable, complicated and overwhelming it seems, with its numberless, seemingly intractable crises that are all entwined.” That is the world’s reality — crooked, unexpected, ironic and often tragic — and it leads Kaplan to his capital-R Realist foreign-policy inclinations. It’s a subject he explores in chapter-length profiles of Henry Kissinger, Huntington and the University of Chicago’s John J. Mearsheimer (whose 2001 magnum opus, “The Tragedy of Great Power Politics,” was later overshadowed by his tendentious and bigoted screed, “The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy,” written with Stephen M. Walt).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Kaplan makes clear that, at its best, Realism provides American statesmen with a middle path between what Kissinger once called “the disastrous oscillations between overcommitment and isolation.” This is what guided the Nixon administration as it sought to get out of Vietnam in a way that preserved America’s reputation as a reliable ally, while also securing a balance of power (through the opening with China) that would help see the United States through the Cold War. Advertisement That Kissinger was willing to do this in ways that scandalized moralistic American liberals is more than fine by Kaplan. “Ensuring a nation’s survival sometimes leaves tragically little room for private morality,” he argues. “The rare individuals who have recognized the necessity of violating such morality, acted accordingly and taken responsibility for their actions are among the most necessary leaders for their countries, even as they have caused great unease among generations of well-meaning intellectuals who, free of the burden of real-world bureaucratic responsibility, make choices in the abstract and treat morality as an inflexible absolute.” There is much truth in that observation: Foreign policy is not merely a subset of ethics. Yet Realism also has limits that its practitioners can fail to appreciate. If it offers a powerful caution against overdosing on the kind of idealism that led us into nation-building exercises in Vietnam and Iraq, it can also keep statesmen from grasping their opportunities. Many Realists were scandalized by Ronald Reagan’s belief that the Cold War could be won. He proved to be right, in part because he understood the moral dimensions of the struggle against Communism better than they did; and in part, too, because sometimes there really is a good case for optimism. Realists can also fail to grasp the power of ideology to shape the behavior of states, often in ways that deform or disregard their own interests. Iran, for instance, has no rational reason to threaten Israel, with which it shares ancient cultural bonds and current enemies. Yet Tehran threatens Israel as a matter of theological conviction, Realpolitik be damned. It is the very rationalism of much of what goes by the name Realism that undermines its claims to understand the world as it really is. Kaplan gets this: “A student of Shakespeare,” he writes, “would have grasped Vladimir Putin’s character long before an international relations wonk.” Geography may be the immutable fact of geopolitics, but geopolitics is still politics, and thus a human story. This makes one of Kaplan’s final chapters, on the dangers of a new utopianism, all the more chilling. We may think we’ve put Orwell’s “Big Brother” behind us, but the psychological conditions that gave rise to fascism and Communism are very much with us today. “The very idea that some sermon or blog or tweet has gone viral is a sad reflection on the state of individualism in the 21st century,” he says. “The electronic swarm is a negation of loneliness that prepares the way for the new ideologies of totalitarianism.” It’s a dark prophecy from an observer with a depressingly accurate record of predictions. When it comes to curbing our enthusiasms, Kaplan’s achievement is to throw so much shade with so much verve. Bret Stephens is a columnist for The Times. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast. A version of this review appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BR11 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Foreign Policy From the Dark Side.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Reuters LONDON — British opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn's path to the prime minister's residence at 10 Downing Street is not proving as smooth as the veteran socialist had hoped. In June, with membership of his Labour Party on the rise, Prime Minister Theresa May bogged down in Brexit talks and her Conservative Party in chaos after an ill-judged snap election, Corbyn said he could be in office by Christmas. Since then, May's team has gained confidence thanks to a breakthrough in talks to leave the European Union and broad international support for her tough stance against Moscow over a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain. By contrast, the uneasy truce struck when May was on the ropes between Corbyn's left-wing supporters and centrist Labour lawmakers at odds with his Socialist beliefs has broken. In the space of a few weeks, rows over Russia, Europe and anti-Semitism, three divisive issues that have dogged Corbyn throughout his long career on the left of British politics, have erupted within Labour. First, the 68-year-old veteran peace campaigner came under fire from some Labour lawmakers for not standing shoulder-to-shoulder with May in blaming Russia directly for the poisoning - instead saying Moscow's culpability needed to be proven before rushing into a new Cold War. Last week, Corbyn, instinctively wary of the EU which many leftists see as a capitalist club, was criticized by some prominent Labour lawmakers for sacking Owen Smith, a member of the party's "shadow cabinet", which mirrors the government. Smith had said there should be a second referendum on leaving the European Union as Brexit would damage the economy and could threaten peace in Northern Ireland. This week, British Jewish groups protested against Corbyn outside parliament accusing the Labour leader, a vocal supporter of Palestinian rights and critic of Israel, of failing to tackle anti-Semitism within Labour ranks. "The question which is most alarming is the question of the Jewish protest against the Labour Party," Labour activist and Brexit campaigner Brendan Chilton told Reuters. "This is a big issue because if the Labour Party can't be seen to be standing up for minority groups ... then you really have to ask what the Labour Party is for." IN CONTROL Corbyn's supporters and even many of his critics do not believe the latest attacks spell the end of his term at the helm of Labour, a party he long criticized from within but few expected him to ever lead. One source close to Corbyn said there was no reason for him to change his stance on Brexit or broader foreign policy issues. "Why would there be?" the source said on condition of anonymity. "This isn't a threat to Jeremy's leadership." Corbyn was unexpectedly elected leader in 2015, riding a wave of enthusiasm for change that has spread across Europe with voters flocking to anti-establishment movements that have emerged since the 2008 global financial crisis. Since then, Corbyn has cemented his control over the party's structures, able to entrench his move to the left after leading Labour to a surprising success in June's snap election by depriving May's Conservatives of a parliamentary majority. His anti-austerity agenda, with pledges to plow money into Britain's stretched health service, schools, universities and social housing, struck a chord with voters jaded with the Conservative Party's rows over Brexit. "The left of the party is in the ascendancy still, I don't think it has peaked," said Chilton. "In that respect, Jeremy Corbyn and the leadership's command ... is still very much intact. It might be dented but it is still intact." Corbyn's team have long said centrists within the party, many of whose beliefs date back to when Labour was in power for more than a decade under Tony Blair, will seize on any opportunity to turn on their leader. But the criticism of his stance over Russia and accusations of turning a blind eye to anti-Semitism have gone deeper than any previous attacks - trumping even the long-running debate within Labour over Britain's departure from the EU. Corbyn may have to come down on Labour members whose support for Palestinians can translate into anti-Jewish comments. He might even face pressure to expel some long-standing supporters such as former London mayor Ken Livingstone.  But Corbyn is unlikely to shift his position dramatically on Brexit, sources said. One source close to his team of top policy advisers said Corbyn spends little time thinking about Brexit and had only agreed to move towards supporting a softer Brexit last month when aides convinced him it would "fit with his world view". Corbyn's position on Russia over the nerve agent attack, however, has shifted. "We can therefore draw no other conclusion ... than Russia has a direct or indirect responsibility," he said on Monday, as countries such as the United States, Germany and France expelled Russian diplomats in response to the poisoning. His earlier prevarication over blaming Moscow has nevertheless spurred Conservative lawmakers to increase their criticism of a leader they say has, in the past, been too close to overseas organizations such as Palestinian group Hamas and Lebanon's Hezbollah. Corbyn says he now regrets describing members of those groups as friends. Hamas and the military wing of Hezbollah are both designated as terrorist organizations by Britain. And some Conservatives now see a chink in his armor. "The historic fears the electorate have been warned about regarding Corbyn's fitness for high office are now being brought by current events into sharp focus," said Conservative lawmaker Andrew Bridgen.  (Reporting by Elizabeth Piper; editing by David Clarke) Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By IVAN PENNMARCH 28, 2018
 As environmental concerns drive power companies away from using coal, natural gas has emerged as the nation’s No. 1 power source. Plentiful and relatively inexpensive as a result of the nation’s fracking boom, it has been portrayed as a bridge to an era in which alternative energy would take primacy. But technology and economics have carved a different, shorter pathway that has bypassed the broad need for some fossil-fuel plants. And that has put proponents of natural gas on the defensive. Some utility companies have scrapped plans for new natural-gas plants in favor of wind and solar sources that have become cheaper and easier to install. Existing gas plants are being shut because their economics are no longer attractive. And regulators are increasingly challenging the plans of companies determined to move forward with new natural-gas plants. “It’s a very different world that we’re arriving at very quickly,” said Robert McCullough, an energy consultant in Portland, Ore. “That wind farm can literally be put on a train and brought online within a year. It is moving so fast that even critics of the old path like myself have been taken by surprise.” Advertisement The shifting dynamics are being seen in the Western states in particular — driven not only by economics, but by regulation and climate as well. Advertisement The Arizona Corporation Commission, which regulates the state’s investor-owned utilities, recently refused to endorse plans by three power companies that included more natural-gas facilities. Commissioners directed them to make greater use of energy storage and plants that produce zero emissions. “It’s very erratic what we’re now doing with power,” said Andrew M. Tobin, an Arizona commissioner who led efforts to block new gas plants. “I am so nervous that we will end up building a lot of capital plant that doesn’t stand the test of time.” Some feel the push to get beyond natural gas may be too much, too soon. Officials at Arizona Public Service, the largest utility in the state, said they needed to include new natural-gas development as part of an overall mix, partly because of the state’s round-the-clock air-conditioning demands. “Our needs are different than other utilities,” said Greg Bernosky, the utility’s director of state regulation and compliance. “We need resources that can have a long duration when our load is high, well after the sun has set. Natural gas resources provide that flexibility.” Nationwide, other utility executives, power producers and federal regulators have also argued that a healthy power grid requires consistent power, even when the sun doesn’t shine or the wind ceases to blow. The more solar and wind power that is added to the electric grid, they say, the greater the need for reliable backup sources like natural gas. “Gas has got to be part of that equation,” Robert F. Powelson, a commissioner on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, recently told an energy conference. “The gas system has gotten extremely reliable.” And he argued that even recent advances in storage did not justify an overreliance on alternative energy, however inexpensive. “Storage is great,” said Mr. Powelson, a nominee of President Trump and a former chairman of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. “But that is not a reliable long-term solution to the energy markets.” Advertisement Natural gas isn’t likely to be unseated as the country’s primary source of electricity generation anytime soon. In fact, utility companies plan to add more natural-gas plants than any other source, including all alternative energy sources, like solar, wind and hydropower, combined. But the calculus is rapidly shifting as the prices of wind and solar power continue to fall. According to the Department of Energy, power generated by natural gas declined 7.7 percent in 2017. And the latest report by Lazard, the financial advisory and management firm, found that the cost of power from utility-scale solar farms was now on a par with natural-gas generation — and that wind farms were less expensive still. Lazard calculated the unsubsidized cost of wind power at 3 cents a kilowatt-hour, while natural gas and solar energy were a little more than 4 cents. The typical American household pays 12.5 cents a kilowatt-hour for electricity, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. (The cost beyond generation reflects transmission, taxes, and other utility expenses and profits.)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Moreover, the market equation in the West is driven largely by California, the sixth-largest economy in the world, which has mandated that 50 percent of its power be generated from renewable sources by 2030. With a regional energy market run by the state’s electricity grid overseer, the California Independent System Operator, fossil-fuel plants have had increasing difficulty selling their power into a market with low-cost solar and wind power. At the same time, state legislatures and regulators are increasingly demanding that utilities rethink how they manage their systems to reduce carbon emissions. Some power producers have bristled at the mandates, even scaling back their operations in certain markets because, they said, it became too difficult to compete without losing money. NRG Energy, for example, announced this month that it would close three natural-gas plants in California because of the regulatory push for clean energy. After NRG’s announcement, Calpine, a power company based in Houston, said it would suspend plans to build a natural-gas plant in California. Advertisement “We cannot invest a single dollar in California,” Thad Hill, Calpine’s chief executive, said. “I would not call California a true competitive market.” But a big Oregon utility, Portland General Electric, has embraced clean-energy mandates to ease it off dependence on fossil fuels. “First off for us, climate change is real and we have to diversify our mix,” Dave Robertson, the company’s vice president for public policy. “We’re driving more and more toward a decarbonized future. We really feel like we’ve got to own that. It’s really where the science is taking us.” This month, Portland General entered into an agreement to buy surplus hydropower from the Bonneville Power Administration — the surplus arises largely from California’s turn to other renewable sources — helping the utility avoid construction of natural-gas plants to replace a coal facility. “There are surpluses of energy that are looking for markets,” said Brett Sims, Portland General’s director of strategic planning and resource strategy. Portland General’s view offered a hopeful message to environmentalists, who pushed for the weaning off coal and now have done much the same with natural gas. “It feels like déjà vu all over again for the electric sector,” Mike Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, said. “Utilities began to find that coal was not just a dirty form of energy but a more expensive form of energy, so they began to replace coal. Now, as they’re looking to replace coal, they’re finding gas in the same situation. There’s a broad trend across the energy sector, mostly in the West, where coal and natural gas can’t compete.” Mr. McCullough, the Portland energy economist and principal at McCullough Research, said that the rapid change had caught many in the industry by surprise and that it could lead to a shorter future for natural gas. “I think the fact of the matter is we’re seeing a lot of people realizing that there are different ways to go,” Mr. McCullough said. Follow Ivan Penn on Twitter: @ivanlpenn Clifford Krauss contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Wind Buffets Energy Landscape.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By SETH COLTER WALLSMARCH 28, 2018
 AMSTERDAM — There’s little in the cultural realm as daunting to produce as Karlheinz Stockhausen’s “Licht.” For this seven-opera (one for each day of the week) cycle — 29 hours of music, written between 1977 and 2003 but not yet staged in its entirety — you need adjacent opera houses and a string quartet capable of playing together while riding in different helicopters. You need electronic specialists drilled in the surround-sound effects Stockhausen was seeking. And you need an army of instrumentalists and singers willing to double as dancers. So it was big news in the music world for Dutch National Opera’s third annual Opera Forward Festival to put on even a single scene from “Licht” (“Light”): the fractious second act, appropriately titled “Invasion-Explosion With Farewell,” from the “Tuesday” opera. This riotous, house-shaking Stockhausen presentation — a teaser for next year’s Holland Festival here, which will present a three-day helping of selections from “Licht” — came on Sunday. It served as an emphatic exclamation point on Opera Forward’s final weekend. But it wasn’t the only show. I saw all four of the closing weekend’s productions, and all proved captivating despite the occasional dramatic snag. Even more impressive than the individual high points was the way the festival avoided feeling uncoordinated. The aesthetic was remarkably unified despite a wide range of offerings. Advertisement In addition to the Stockhausen, there was another avant-garde rarity on the program: a staged version of Hans Werner Henze’s oratorio “Das Floss der Medusa” (“The Raft of the Medusa”), created during the peak of the composer’s engagement with late-1960s leftist radicalism (and later revised, in 1990). A program of one-acts — Leonard Bernstein’s “Trouble in Tahiti” and James MacMillan’s “Clemency” — bore only scant thematic connection to the other works. An early-music item, Stefano Landi’s 1619 “La Morte d’Orfeo,” extended the tale Monteverdi told in his pioneering “Orfeo.” Wait, 17th-century Italy? Wasn’t this supposed to be “Opera Forward”? The unifying element, which made even Landi seem future-looking, turned out to be the same one that has brought the Dutch National Opera to new heights in recent decades: The intelligence of Pierre Audi, the company’s artistic director, could be felt across all these shows. And not just the Landi opera, a gently surreal presentation that served as Mr. Audi’s last turn in the director’s chair during his tenure here. (He has recently started as artistic director of the Park Avenue Armory in New York, and this year also takes over the Aix-en-Provence Festival in France.) Advertisement His stirring, confident “La Morte d’Orfeo” shared some features he has used in works quite different from Landi’s, like Messiaen’s “St. François d’Assise.” Gleaming, lacquer-shiny black plastic sheets appeared once again, this time as a scenic backdrop that allowed select colors of the stage design to pop with vibrancy — like a suspended wintry tree sprouting in multiple directions, suggesting both Earth and the underworld. Guiding affecting performances from the cast, Mr. Audi’s interpretive hand was not heavy. Particular standouts at the Sunday matinee included a sweeping sense of melodic line from the baritone Renato Dolcini and the controlled viciousness of the countertenor Kacper Szelazek. The lustrous warmth of the mezzo-soprano Cecilia Molinari’s tone was put to ample use as she was given a four-role marathon that included Eurydice. In directing “The Raft of the Medusa,” Romeo Castellucci followed an occasional strategy of Mr. Audi’s: Take something that is not really an opera, squint at it, and make it one. Here, Henze’s oratorio about the shipwrecked conscripts of the frigate Medusa in 1816 — you probably know the classic Géricault painting — was connected to contemporary political concerns by a film of Mr. Castellucci’s, projected on a scrim at the front of the stage. In the film the athlete Mamadou Ndiaye languished in roughly the same patch of sea where the Medusa once disintegrated, off the coast of Senegal, while Henze’s characters congregated on both sides of the screen. The filmed presence of Mr. Ndiaye, evoking current-day refugees in current-day waters, slices through some of the ’twas-ever-thus fatalism of Henze’s socialist critique. By placing contemporary images front and center, the staging reopens these old questions, as if to ask: Must it always be this way? After exciting opening minutes, the staging lost coherence for a stretch. It wasn’t consistently clear which of Henze’s characters were dead and which were living. Henze’s vividly aggrieved string writing, stacked with eerie harmonics and col legno abrasion, had more impact than some of the images; the conductor, Ingo Metzmacher, and the Netherlands Philharmonic Orchestra drew intense drama from these passages. There is an arresting turn near the end. Throughout the work, the character of Death (sung with steely urgency by the soprano Lenneke Ruiten) is dressed as a camera-toting cable news anchor. When Mr. Castellucci makes what seems an obvious move — turning the camera on the seats, implicating the audience — he doesn’t offer the live feed we might expect; instead, the seats appear empty. Advertisement The effect goes beyond challenging the audience’s politics, and instead calls its very existence into doubt. Here, the staging achieved an abstract power perfectly in line with the hallucinations of the libretto. The reimagining wasn’t quite as effective as Mr. Audi’s 2014 recasting of Schoenberg’s cantata “Gurre-Lieder” as an opera. But the best moments came close. While it didn’t have the same dramatic impact, the double bill of “Trouble in Tahiti” and “Clemency” also boasted a strong cast, including the persuasively haunted soprano Turiya Haudenhuyse, who didn’t overdo the indignant mood that can be easily overindulged in portrayals of Dinah, Bernstein’s claustral 1950s housewife.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. By the time Opera Forward finally got to the chunk of Stockhausen, the biggest surprise wasn’t that it actually happened, but that it spoke to the rest of the works in the festival. “Tuesday” is an opera of conflict between two of the characters driving the full “Licht” cycle. There’s Michael, a tenor role (and sometimes a loose stand-in for Stockhausen himself), who tends to be accompanied by some tricky trumpet playing. Lucifer is the demonic avatar of creative destruction: a bass voice shadowed by trombones. In “Invasion-Explosion With Farewell,” their respective instrumental armies do battle atop an eight-channel, surround-sound electronic composition. On Sunday evening, Michael, Lucifer and their warring teams snaked around the audience, which was seated on stage. The players engaged in volleys of crashing, loud confrontations separated by muted retreats. The omnidirectional swirl of music, which also included percussion and distended keyboard tones, was the best live Stockhausen performance I’ve heard; it had all the crazed complexity of a work like “Gruppen,” but with a clear dramatic through line. When one of Michael’s trumpeters is wounded, Eva, the maternal character in “Licht,” emerges to offer some comfort. The soprano Pia Bohnert’s lightly amplified performance of this section sounded like an outer-space cousin of Calliope’s mourning in “La Morte d’Orfeo.” As Mr. Audi has long proven, bringing opera forward doesn’t just involve new works, though next year brings Gyorgy Kurtag’s long-awaited adaptation of Beckett’s “Endgame,” after its premier this fall in Milan. It also means finding connections between styles and periods often thought incompatible. Opera Forward FestivalEnded Monday at the Dutch National Opera, Amsterdam; operaballet.nl. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By LISA W. FODERAROMARCH 28, 2018
 PELHAM, N.Y. — Dr. Andrew Mutnick closely follows national politics, and has even gone door-knocking for Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. But he admits he was caught off guard by the political landscape of his own backyard. It was not until Donald J. Trump won the presidency that Dr. Mutnick, a pediatrician with offices in Manhattan and Westchester County, learned that his own Democratic state senator, Jeffrey D. Klein, had been empowering Republicans in Albany. “I’m like, ‘Jeez, what? Really? Where have I been?’” he recalled thinking after discovering Mr. Klein’s leadership of a group of eight Democrats who have a power-sharing arrangement with Republicans in the State Senate. “I thought that if I didn’t know about this, I bet a lot of people don’t know,” Dr. Mutnick said. “It’s an incredibly insidious arrangement that is very difficult to untangle and understand.” Advertisement Across the nation, a backlash to the Trump agenda is underway, especially among angry suburban voters like Dr. Mutnick. The latest example surfaced earlier this month in a Pennsylvania congressional special election, where Conor Lamb, a Democrat, defeated his Republican opponent  in a district outside Pittsburgh that Mr. Trump had won by 20 percentage points. Advertisement In New York, Democrats are mostly focused on unseating six Republican members of the congressional delegation. But for some, merely targeting Republicans is not enough; Mr. Klein’s group, the Independent Democratic Conference, is now fair game because it is viewed as an enabler to Republican rule — helping them control the State Senate even though Democrats hold a numerical majority. The rising antipathy toward the I.D.C. has led to a tentative agreement to have the renegade group eventually return to the Democratic fold. The condition-laden deal has the blessing of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat who has been criticized by some — most recently by his new primary opponent, Cynthia Nixon — for not using his influence to force a truce years earlier. Nonetheless, residual anger over Mr. Trump’s victory, combined with the Democrats’ hopes of flipping Congress in the midterm elections this fall, have invigorated efforts to drive the I.D.C. senators out of office. A coalition of 60 anti-Trump groups has endorsed five Democratic challengers who will run against members of the I.D.C. in the September primary. The Working Families Party, which often cross-endorses Democratic candidates, has come out in support of seven challengers. Activists from groups like Progressive Women of Pelham, True Blue NY and Rockland Citizens Action Network have held postcard-writing parties, protests and educational forums to inform the public about the I.D.C. They face an uphill battle: The I.D.C. members have all the advantages of incumbency, from name recognition to fund-raising. The I.D.C. was created in 2011 by Mr. Klein, whose district includes parts of the Bronx and Westchester, and a coterie of breakaway Democrats who were dissatisfied with the Senate Democratic leadership. A year later, the group declared its intention to form a bipartisan coalition with Republicans. Advertisement Since then, the Republicans have ruled the Senate, while Democrats control the governorship and Assembly. That has left New York out of a club of eight states in which Democrats control both houses of the legislature and the governor’s office. After Mr. Trump’s victory, Lisa DellAquila, a leader of True Blue NY, created a PowerPoint about the I.D.C. “It’s complicated to understand who they are and what the effect is,” said Ms. DellAquila, a lawyer and stay-at-home mother in Harlem. “I traveled around and made presentations to a couple of people sitting in their living rooms in Riverdale and to big crowds in town halls in Jackson Heights.” True Blue NY and other groups in the coalition that gave their support to the challengers did so only after the candidates signed a pledge that they would caucus with the mainline Democrats. In recent days, those challengers have started to view themselves as a slate. “There’s always strength in numbers,” said Alessandra Biaggi, the Democratic candidate for Mr. Klein’s seat who was endorsed by the coalition. “Having the same message amplified in eight different districts is very powerful and important.” Ms. Biaggi, 31, formerly worked in the counsel’s office for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and later was a top official in Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. She is also a granddaughter of Mario Biaggi, the Bronx Democratic congressman who went to prison in the 1980s for corruption, but remains a popular figure in the borough.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In her parents’ living room in Pelham Manor, in southern Westchester County, Ms. Biaggi said she adored her grandfather, adding that she was too young at the time of his trial to understand his wrongdoing. In debating whether to run for Senate, Ms. Biaggi said she was unconcerned about any potential baggage of the Biaggi name. Rather, it was the prospect of a campaign for state office. “There’s no right time,” she explained. “It’s always going to be inconvenient. But what’s more inconvenient is not having a truly Democratic state legislature to put us on par with California and Oregon. The I.D.C. senators are not who they say they are. They are not true Democrats.” For their part, the members of the I.D.C. say they have pulled the Senate Republicans to the left and have helped pass progressive legislation, from a $15 minimum wage to raising the age of criminal responsibility. Mainline Democrats say that the I.D.C.’s real motive is power and the perks that come with it — committee chairmanships, larger offices and lucrative stipends. They say that Mr. Klein, through his coalition with Republicans, also has tremendous say over which bills reach the floor for a vote. Advertisement Democratic activists argue that many more pieces of progressive legislation would have become law, had the mainstream Democrats controlled the Senate. Earlier this month, Dominique Claire Shuminova made the jump from helping lead the Progressive Women of Pelham to becoming Ms. Biaggi’s deputy campaign manager. She said that perhaps her main motivation for trying to derail the I.D.C. was a desire to see more progressive laws enacted. “Jeff Klein is standing in the way of all this legislation I care about,” said Ms. Shuminova, pointing to issues like women’s reproductive health and voting rights. “In the age of Donald Trump, there is a new urgency to all of these bills getting to the floor.” In a statement, Mr. Klein blamed the anti-Trump coalition for blocking Democratic unity in the Senate. “These fringe groups have repudiated efforts by the state Democrats, Senate Democrats and the governor to go into the November elections with a unified party,” he said. “If there is anyone who is responsible for the failure of the Democratic Party in November, it will be them. Their divisive, empty platform is largely responsible for Donald Trump’s election in the first place.” Even if the deal to merge the I.D.C. with the mainline Democrats was to go through, the Democrats would still be one vote short of the 32 they need to lead the 63-seat chamber: Another Democratic senator, Simcha Felder of Brooklyn, has been siding with Republicans since 2012, and has been noncommittal about his alliances. John Gromada, vice president of Rockland Citizens Action Network, said that deal or no deal, he would continue to work to unseat his state senator, David Carlucci, an I.D.C. member. “We don’t want to reward Carlucci and the other I.D.C. members for the treachery they have committed since 2011,” said Mr. Gromada, a composer who lives in Nyack. Advertisement Others see a sexist subplot to the partnership between Republicans and the breakaway Democrats, one that has denied Andrea Stewart-Cousins, leader of the mainstream Senate Democrats, the title of Senate majority leader, and a role in the behind-the-scenes deal making now conducted by the so-called four men in a room. Mr. Klein is one of the four men — the others are Mr. Cuomo; Carl E. Heastie, the Assembly speaker; and John J. Flanagan, the Senate majority leader — who finalize the budget and other weighty issues behind closed doors. Rhea Mallett, a Briarcliff Manor resident who helped found Indivisible Rivertowns, said the latest deal between mainstream Democrats and the I.D.C. was especially frustrating given the #MeToo movement and the spate of sexual assault and harassment allegations against powerful men, including Mr. Klein. “The part that upsets me the most is what they are doing to Andrea Stewart-Cousins,” said Ms. Mallett, a lawyer and mother of two. “She is so smart and knows so much. She is the first woman to ever head a major party in the Senate. You basically have men saying, ‘You can’t do it; you have to share it.’ It’s outrageous.” A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Anger Over Trump Threatens Albany’s Renegade Democrats.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:42 P.M. E.D.T.
 JOHANNESBURG —  Captain Steve Smith and vice-captain David Warner were banned for 12 months on Wednesday after an investigation into the Australian cricket team's cheating scandal identified Warner as the instigator of the ball tampering plan that unraveled in South Africa. Cricket Australia said Warner "instructed" young batsman Cameron Bancroft to carry out the tampering on the field with a piece of sandpaper — even showed Bancroft how to do it — then misled match officials and tried to cover up his role in the cheating. Smith, the top test batsman in the world and the star of Australian cricket, knew about the plan. But the captain failed "to take steps to seek to prevent the development and implementation of that plan," Cricket Australia said as it released the findings of the investigation by its head of integrity that dragged in all the players, coaches and backroom staff for questioning. Smith and Warner were banned from playing for Australia, or any high-level cricket in Australia, for a year. Bancroft, maybe because he's an impressionable newcomer in the team, received a nine-month ban. Advertisement The 28-year-old Smith will not be allowed to captain Australia for two years and Warner will never be allowed to hold a leadership position in Australian cricket again. At 31, Warner may never play for Australia again. Advertisement The fallout extended beyond Australia. The three players were also all banned for the 2018 edition of the Indian Premier League, denying them places in the lucrative Twenty20 tournament where players are paid big money to appear. "These are significant penalties for professional players and the (Cricket Australia) board does not impose them lightly," CA chairman David Peever said. "It is hoped that following a period of suspension, the players will be able to return to playing the game they love and eventually rebuild their careers." All three were encouraged by national administrators to play low-level club cricket during their bans in an attempt to rebuild trust with the Australian public. In terms of Smith's future captaincy prospects, CA said that "would be conditional on acceptance by fans and the public." Underlining the extent of the damage to Australia's reputation, the Cricket Australia bans were far more serious than punishments handed out by the International Cricket Council. The ICC banned Smith for one test, gave Bancroft disciplinary demerit points but no ban at all, and didn't even charge Warner with any offense following the tampering episode in the third test last weekend. That led some to argue that CA had gone too far in their punishments for an offense that has happened multiple times before in cricket. "We are all so hurt and angry and maybe we weren't so sure how to react. We'd just never seen it before," Australia great Shane Warne, one of the best bowlers the game has seen, wrote on his social media accounts. "But the jump to hysteria is something that has elevated the offense beyond what they actually did, and maybe we're at a point where the punishment just might not fit the crime." Advertisement Smith's fall from grace was sudden and steep after he captained Australia to a 4-0 Ashes rout of England a few months ago, establishing himself as the best batsman in the world with a series of outstanding performances. Now, he's an outcast in his sport, only allowed to play club cricket. As he left the team hotel in Johannesburg, Smith told the Associated Press he didn't feel like playing any cricket right now.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Wearing a white T-shirt and dark baseball cap, Smith hugged teammate Tim Paine, who has replaced him as Australia's test captain, before he headed for the airport. Coach Darren Lehmann, who was cleared of having any knowledge of the tampering plan, was part of a small group of players and backroom staff to see him off. Smith was later escorted by police into Johannesburg's international airport. Smith faced humiliating scenes as he moved through the airport, accompanied by boos and calls of "cheat."  He was surrounded by at least six police officers and was led by the hand, several times jostled by the crowd. The three cricketers will return to face an outraged Australian public which has witnessed the treasured reputation of its favorite sports team severely tarnished. "They have made a grave mistake, but they are not bad people," Lehmann said. The saga could signal the end of the international career of Warner, a pugnacious opening batsman who has a series of disciplinary breaches behind him. Warner had already been identified as the chief culprit in the plot by Australian media, which said he had completely fallen out with his teammates. Australia's Fox Sports reported that Warner was seen drinking champagne in a hotel bar in Cape Town earlier this week with non-cricket friends while the investigation into one of the most damaging scandals in Australian sport was underway. The ball tampering plan could be seen as being almost comical if it hadn't destroyed reputations and possibly careers. Advertisement Tasked with doing the tampering in the game in Cape Town, Bancroft was caught in the act by television cameras and then panicked and tried to hide the piece of sandpaper he used down the front of his trousers, an action that was also caught on TV and replayed over and over in slow-motion and close-up. Smith and Bancroft were forced to front up and admit the plot to reporters after play in the face of the overwhelming TV evidence. In one intriguing detail, CA said that Bancroft used sandpaper on the ball to rough it up. The players originally said they used yellow sticky tape and dirt. With Smith, Warner and Bancroft on the way home, three players had been flown out from Australia to take their places for the final test in South Africa starting on Friday. Following a crushing 322-run loss in that fated third test in Cape Town, Australia trails 2-1 in the series and faces losing a series in South Africa for the first time in nearly 50 years. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By AMY QINMARCH 27, 2018
 HONG KONG — Just two hours into the V.I.P. preview of the sixth edition of Art Basel Hong Kong on Tuesday, it became clear why the center of gravity in the art world is shifting toward Asia. That’s when the Lévy Gorvy gallery announced that it had sold Willem de Kooning’s “Untitled XII” (1975) to a private collector. It came from the coveted collection of Paul Allen, the Microsoft co-founder. The asking price for the painting? $35 million — making it one of the highest-priced works in the fair’s history. With Art Basel Hong Kong offering a premium platform for sales and access to top international collectors, heavyweight galleries that were previously dipping their toes in the Asian market are taking the plunge. Advertisement Earlier this year, both David Zwirner and Hauser & Wirth opened outposts in Hong Kong, joining other major dealers like Gagosian and White Cube, which already have spaces in the city. Galleries like Galerie Perrotin and Pace Gallery, which have a foot in the door, have been expanding their sizable presence in Asia, while Lévy Gorvy has opened offices in the region and is looking for an exhibition space here. Advertisement To the extent that art follows money, the tilt toward Asia comes as no surprise. A report released last year revealed that, for the first time, there are now more billionaires in Asia than in the United States. And that increase in wealth appears to be translating into more art sales. Last year, the Asian market accounted for 23 percent of global sales and Asian buyers accounted for 15 percent of dealer sales, according to an annual art market report commissioned by Art Basel and UBS released this month. More and more Asian collectors are going to fairs like Art Basel in Basel, Switzerland, and Frieze, in New York, and coming back expecting to see works of comparable quality. ‘‘The reason why galleries are starting to take Asian collectors more seriously is because the whole art ecosystem here — including the museums, collectors, and the local art fairs — is maturing very quickly,” said Du Jie, 47, a Beijing-based collector. Mr. Du started collecting after taking an art appreciation class at the Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing three years ago. Since then, he has quickly amassed a collection of both Chinese and Western artists. “The biggest difference between the Asian and European fairs is that there are fewer Old Masters here,” added Mr. Du, who on the second day of the fair was still negotiating with galleries for works by artists including Olafur Eliasson, Antony Gormley, and Elizabeth Peyton. “But the Old Masters are still too expensive for this market. And based on what I’ve seen, Asian collectors still have a long way to go in understanding the intricacies of collecting, including myself.” Many credit the recent explosion of the regional market in part to Art Basel’s arrival in Hong Kong. Today, it is still regarded as the premier regional art fair. “Without the fairs, nobody would know the Asian galleries because we are too far away from the Western world,” said Lorenz Helbling, founder of ShanghART Gallery, with locations in China and Singapore. But there are signs this year of a backlash among some local dealers who are concerned that while the pie may be bigger, not everyone is getting a chance to partake. For mid-tier and emerging galleries in Asia, the costs of participating in Art Basel — upward of $100,000 for many, including booth rental, shipping, and staffing — are huge. “There’s definitely pressure,” said Jasdeep Sandhu, founder of Gajah Gallery in Singapore, one of the 248 galleries taking part in this year’s fair. “Being an Asian gallery, our prices in general are still very affordable compared to the Western artists so put that alongside the cost of a fair like Basel and you really feel the pressure.” As a result, Asia-based galleries are beginning to re-evaluate how they approach international art fairs like Art Basel. Advertisement While being selected for the Hong Kong edition continues to be a badge of prestige and a vital selling point for a gallery’s reputation, the fair is increasingly being seen by many local galleries not as a profit-making opportunity but rather as a necessary marketing cost — and an expensive one at that. “The big galleries are only getting bigger so it’s getting harder to compete,” said Anthony Tao, director of Gallery EXIT in Hong Kong. “But at the end of the day, Basel is Basel. We need the exposure.” Some dealers say that the atmosphere in the Hong Kong edition of Art Basel is typically slower than those of Miami and Basel. Indeed, as the doors swung open at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center on Tuesday afternoon, the scene at first was not so much a “running of the billionaires” — as the journalist Tom Wolfe once called the fair’s Miami edition — as it was a casual saunter. “At Art Basel in Basel, the successes are more tangible; things happen quickly,” said Isa Lorenzo, founder of Silverlens Galleries in Manila. “But here in Hong Kong, it’s circuitous. There’s a lot of window-shopping, a lot of information gathering, and a lot of talking and meeting people who may or may not get back to you.” Not everyone is dismayed. With the rise of smaller, more local art fairs like West Bund Art & Design in Shanghai and Art Stage Jakarta, dealers say there is no shortage of opportunities to sell art. So when it comes to Art Basel Hong Kong, they say, they can experiment more and present more cutting-edge work. “This year, we chose to present a more academic booth instead of focusing on making sales,” said Olivier Hervet, a partner of HDM Gallery in Beijing and Hangzhou, which brought a solo booth of works by the young Chinese artist Li Jingxiong that call to mind industrial ruins.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Acknowledging the concerns, Adeline Ooi, director of Art Basel Hong Kong, said, “From the Asian standpoint, we are still growing and developing and I think art fairs are still important in this part of the world.” “But I fully understand the difficulties and why sometimes gallerists feel they need to opt out because they feel like it’s a race they can no longer sustain,” she added. “We are trying our best to make sure that it adds up for them, and that includes possibly cost cutting.” The word “learning” comes up a lot in conversations at Art Basel Hong Kong — Western galleries are “learning” about what Asian collectors are looking for, Asian galleries are “learning” about what Western collectors are seeking, and everyone is “learning” about the many artists — both Asian and non-Asian — being presented. Advertisement That’s why even critics say that Art Basel Hong Kong remains one of the most exciting events on the ever-growing art fair circuit. “This fair is really the only one I’m sad about leaving,” said José Freire, a veteran art dealer and founder of Team Gallery in New York who recently announced in a candid interview with Artnet that after Art Basel Hong Kong, he was quitting art fairs for good to focus on the gallery’s exhibition program of emerging and midcareer artists back in New York and Los Angeles. “The people who come to this fair are not jaded,” he added. “They don’t pretend to know it all, they are curious about art, and they kind of remind me of what things were like in the past.” Follow Amy Qin on Twitter: @amyyqin. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and ALAN RAPPEPORTMARCH 27, 2018
 Update: The United States and South Korea formally announced the trade agreement in a joint statement on Wednesday, and said that it “represents important progress in improving U.S.-Korea trade and economic relations.” WASHINGTON — President Trump scored his first significant trade deal this week, securing a pact with South Korea that represents the type of one-on-one agreement that Mr. Trump says makes the best sense for American companies and workers. The deal, which is expected to be formally announced on Wednesday, opens the South’s market to American autos by lifting existing limits on manufacturers like Ford Motor and General Motors, extends tariffs for South Korean truck exports and restricts, by nearly a third, the amount of steel that the South can export to the United States. Mr. Trump used his threat of stiff steel and aluminum tariffs as a cudgel to extract the concessions he wanted, helping produce an agreement that had stalled amid disagreements this year. But winning the deal may have had more to do with the geopolitical realities confronting the United States and South Korea as America embarks on tricky nuclear discussions with North Korea. The United States cannot afford a protracted trade standoff at a moment when it needs the South as an ally. Advertisement The trade deal came as the Chinese state news media reported that North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, made an unannounced visit to Beijing to meet with President Xi Jinping weeks before planned summit meetings with American and South Korean leaders. Advertisement The political success of the trade agreement — and its ability to be replicated in other negotiations — is not guaranteed. Many countries have reacted coolly to Washington’s pugilistic approach to trade, viewing the president’s preference to punch first and negotiate later as counter to global interests. President Emmanuel Macron of France lashed out at the approach on Tuesday, saying he was frustrated by the seemingly coercive negotiation tactics coming from Washington. “We talk about everything, in principle, with a friendly country that respects the rules of the W.T.O.,” Mr. Macron said. “We talk about nothing, in principle, when it is with a gun to our head.” The implications in the United States will depend on how well Mr. Trump and his allies are able to sell the deal’s direct benefits to voters in midterm elections in the fall. They did not succeed in doing so in a recent special election in Pennsylvania, where a Democrat won in a district that should have been especially receptive to Mr. Trump’s argument about trade and tariffs. Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist, said the president’s political team “must get on the ground and make sure working people understand the direct economic benefits that come from these measures — get it from being academic to simple.” The deal with South Korea, he said, “is a big victory resulting from the president’s smart tariff policies.” The state news media in China and North Korea confirmed that Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, was in the mysterious train that pulled into Beijing on Monday. It was his first official visit abroad since he took office. The agreement is also a victory for a president whose most ardent campaign supporters were animated in part by a promise that Mr. Trump would fight for them against an international free-trade establishment that they believe had robbed them of jobs and depressed their wages. Advertisement As a candidate, Mr. Trump had repeatedly threatened to withdraw from trade deals he said were unfair to the United States and its workers — or even rip them up. Even as recently as last September, associates of the president made it clear that he was willing to withdraw from trade negotiations with South Korea if he thought the result would be unfair. Mr. Trump has also made clear his disdain for the multicountry trade agreements that the United States has long championed. One of his first moves as president was to pull out of what was then the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership, an agreement that President Barack Obama had helped solidify.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. On Tuesday, supporters of Mr. Trump’s protectionist approach to trade cheered the new pact as a victory for American workers and the dawn of a new era in globalization. “The agreement with South Korea to better level the playing field on steel and autos is an encouraging sign that the administration’s trade strategy is achieving results,” said Scott N. Paul, the president of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. “We believe the deal’s steel provision will be as effective as a tariff in achieving the goals of strengthening our domestic industry and ensuring it can supply America’s security needs.” Through the agreement, South Korea — the third-biggest exporter of steel to the United States in 2016 — is permanently exempt from the White House’s global tariffs of 25 percent on steel. In return, South Korea agreed to adhere to a quota of 2.68 million tons of steel exports to the United States a year, which it said was roughly equivalent to 70 percent of its annual average sent to the United States from 2015 to 2017. The deal also doubles the number of vehicles the United States can export to South Korea without meeting local safety requirements to 50,000 per manufacturer. However, trade experts said that American companies had not come close to meeting their existing quota last year, and that American carmakers had not done enough to tailor their products for South Korean consumers, who prefer smaller vehicles. The revised agreement does ease environmental regulations that American carmakers face when selling vehicles in South Korea and makes American standards for auto parts compliant with South Korean regulations. Importantly for the Trump administration, the agreement extends tariffs on imported South Korean trucks by 20 years to 2041. Those tariffs were set to phase out in 2021, which officials said would have harmed American truck makers. The deal will also establish a side agreement between the United States and South Korea that is intended to deter “competitive devaluation” of both countries’ currencies — which can artificially lower the cost of imports bought by consumers — and to create more transparency on issues of monetary policy. Administration officials suggested that this new type of arrangement was likely to be replicated in other trade deals, though they acknowledged that it was not enforceable. Senior White House officials trumpeted the addition of the currency provision to the negotiations, which would seek to prevent South Korea from reducing the value of its currency to make its goods cheaper abroad and export more to the United States. In a report published in October, the Treasury Department declined to label South Korea a currency manipulator, but placed it on a “monitoring list” for its currency practices and large trade surplus with the United States. Advertisement However, the effect of the currency agreement may be mostly symbolic, since it was signed in a side deal to the pact to avoid a lengthy legislative approval process. Unlike other provisions of the official agreement, the currency provision is not enforceable through panels that typically settle disputes, or through officially sanctioned retaliation, the usual method for policing trade deals. The Obama administration had fought for a similar currency provision to be included in the Trans-Pacific Partnership. On automobiles, the biggest source of trade tensions between the countries, the negotiation delivered modest victories that were likely to be welcomed by American carmakers who have long sought to sell more cars in South Korea. It also smoothed customs and regulatory procedures that American businesses say have made it harder to sell goods in the country. Ana Swanson contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Backers See Trade Deal As a Validation.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By BEN BRANTLEYMARCH 28, 2018
 A drum squad of anxious questions starts pounding in your head early during Simon Stone’s “Yerma,” which opened at the Park Avenue Armory on Tuesday night in one of the most harrowing — and compelling — productions you are ever likely to see. “Just how far,” you think, with equal measures apprehension and fascination, “is she willing to go?” The answer: further than you dare imagine. I am not referring to the central character in Mr. Stone’s contemporary riff on Federico García Lorca’s poetic tragedy from 1934, though the same questions could certainly apply. The woman identified as Her in Mr. Stone’s script is a London journalist who longs hungrily to have a child, and will indeed do almost anything to conceive one. But the risk-taker who most preoccupies you is the astonishing actress who plays Her in this London import, staged there at the Young Vic in 2016. Her name is Billie Piper, and you may have caught her on television, perhaps, in “Doctor Who,” “Penny Dreadful” or the current Netflix series “Collateral.” Advertisement But as appealing and vivid as Ms. Piper has reliably been in such fare — and in West End stage productions like “Great Britain” and “The Effect” — nothing she did previously prepares you for this blistering portrait, which copped every acting award on offer in London. This is one of those performances that leave you bruised, breathless and grateful for an experience you wouldn’t have missed for the world. Advertisement For what Ms. Piper achieves is an anatomy of an obsession that, layer by layer, peels off one woman’s skin until every nerve ending is mercilessly exposed. And while Lizzie Clachan’s ingenious, two-sided transparent box of a set presents this act of vivisection under glass, as if on a specimen slide, be warned that you will find it impossible to maintain a clinical distance. Ms. Piper’s daring, it should be noted, is matched by that of Mr. Stone, a young Australian director who has already made a name for himself as an unorthodox interpreter of classics. On the surface, “Yerma” would seem to be an unpromising candidate for a 21st-century conversion. Set in an isolated village in Southern Spain, Lorca’s tragedy tells the baleful, simple story of a farmer’s wife who prays, insistently and in vain, to be a mother. (Her name, Yerma, is a play on the Spanish verb for “to lay waste.”) It unfolds, in darkly lyrical language, like a medieval fairy tale. Mr. Stone saw something ageless in Yerma’s visceral desire to conceive and her attendant, abject sense of failure. “The biological dramas will always be the same,” he said in an interview with The Financial Times. “We are still just animals. It’s more of a shock to discover that now.” Rather than setting his version in a small agrarian community — where people remain close to nature’s rhythms and everybody knows everybody else’s business — Mr. Stone took a contrarian approach. This “Yerma” takes place in a London of a willfully progressive, deracinated middle class, which long ago discarded traditional notions of family. Ms. Piper’s Her is an assertive, feminist editor of a national newspaper, who has just bought a house in a gentrifying outer London neighborhood with her longtime partner, John (a superb Brendan Cowell). They seem to be of one sensibility, with their playful, raunchy sex talk and smug, pleasure-seeking narcissism. When Her, who is in her early 30s, casually suggests it might be time to start thinking family, John agrees. He even stomps on her sheet of birth control pills in a ritual affirmation; they don’t crush easily, though, on the deep carpet of their new digs. (Mr. Stone has some cunning variations on folkloric portents.) Advertisement And so the long wait begins. I don’t think it’s a spoiler to say that they are waiting in vain, though there is one idyllic scene that briefly and cruelly suggests otherwise. Her’s natural vivacity edges into fever and frenzy, as she spends time with her frustratingly fertile sister, Mary (Charlotte Randle) and their abstracted, academic mother (Maureen Beattie).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Also in her immediate orbit are Des (Thalissa Teixeira), the trendy young woman who is her assistant, and Her’s former boyfriend, Victor (John MacMillan), who winds up working at the same paper. It’s only a small circle of acquaintances she moves among, yet her plight is known, it seems at times, to the whole wide world. That’s because Her writes a blog, with ever more candor and unblushing detail, about her experiences. You might think that, unlike Lorca’s insular rustic community, latter-day London is a place to be anonymous, should once choose. But Mr. Stone makes it clear that, because of social media, the world today is just one big, gossipy village. And the wagging, censorious tongues of Lorca’s townsfolk are replaced by the all-too appropriately named trolls who lie in wait in dark corners of the internet. Not that you’ll be consciously drawing such parallels. What hooks and holds you is the magnetic emotional pull of the performances, and I mean all of them, as each character tries to wrestle with and backs off from the ferocity of the unraveling Her. Ms. Piper realizes the rare and inspired paradox of an artfully controlled portrait of someone losing every last vestige of self-control. Even at her character’s most tormented, Ms. Piper is never merely flailing. Each increasingly wild gesture and utterance are of a consummate piece with the seemingly contented, exuberant woman we meet at the play’s beginning. Ms. Piper sustains a dangerous, seesawing tension between the familiar, wryly civilized surface and the primal agony that swallows selfhood. It is a bleak and hellish destination to which she leads us. And throughout it has been subliminally underscored by Ms. Clachan’s claustrophobic corridor of a set (the audience sits on either side) and Stefan Gregory’s choral music. When Ms. Piper took her curtain calls on Tuesday night, she had the stunned, brutalized look of someone who had been through war and wasn’t yet sure if she’d won. The audience, at first, seemed equally dazed. It took a few moments for everyone to realize that this study of nihilistic defeat was indeed an unconditional victory. Park Avenue Armory (Seventh Regiment Armory) 643 Park Ave. Upper East Side 212-933-5812 armoryonpark.org Category Off Broadway, Play, Drama Runtime 1 hr. and 40 min. Credits Written by Federico García Lorca, adapted and directed by Simon Stone Cast Maureen Beattie, Brendan Cowell, John MacMillan, Billie Piper, Charlotte Randle and Thalissa Teixeira Preview March 23, 2018 Opened March 27, 2018 Closing Date  April 21, 2018 
                This information was last updated: April 4, 2018  A version of this review appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Seismic Unraveling Shakes the Armory.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. But our primary goal is that this feature adds value to your reading experience. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:15 P.M. E.D.T.
 BUFFALO, N.Y. —  Jack Eichel has difficulty accepting the sorry state of the Buffalo Sabres, who haven't had a sniff at the playoffs in the three years since his celebrated arrival. "When I got drafted, if you would've said we'd be in this position, I probably would've told you to give your head a shake," Eichel told The Associated Press. Instead, it's the 21-year-old shaking his head in disbelief over a franchise that's finished no better than 14th in the Eastern Conference since 2012-13 and in jeopardy of finishing last in the overall standings for the third time in five years. This isn't what anyone — from since-fired GM Tim Murray to Sabres fans encouraging the team to tank — were anticipating during the 2014-15 season. That's when Buffalo was in a race to the bottom for the right to draft one of the two touted, generational prospects: Eichel and Connor McDavid, who was selected first overall by Edmonton. Advertisement What's worse for Eichel is seeing other teams jumping ahead of Buffalo in the rebuilding process. "You look at Colorado and some of these teams, New Jersey, that make a quick turnaround and all of a sudden they're in the playoff hunt," he said. Advertisement If misery likes company, the Sabres aren't the only ones stuck in a rut. Whatever watershed moment the 2015 draft was supposed to represent by infusing game-changing talent to the NHL's neediest teams, it has yet to make more than a ripple in the standings. Eichel hasn't made a dent in the Sabres' fortunes despite averaging nearly a point a game. For all of McDavid's offensive exploits and earning NHL MVP honors last season, the Oilers will miss the playoffs for the second time in his three years. Instead, the 2015 draft serves as a cautionary example of how bottoming out doesn't guarantee instant turnarounds. With the exception of Toronto, three of the teams, including Arizona, with top-five selections in 2015 have already been eliminated from this year's playoffs, and a fourth, Carolina, could join them soon. So much for the tanking tenet held by several NHL executives, who thought the best way to build a champion was to start by losing big. Pittsburgh did that in building its three most recent Stanley Cup champion teams with two No. 1 draft picks (Sidney Crosby and goalie Marc-Andre Fleury) and a No. 2 (Evgeni Malkin). Chicago's three most recent Cup winners followed the Blackhawks selecting Jonathan Toews with the No. 3 pick in 2006 and Patrick Kane No. 1 the following year. And yet, there are exceptions. Detroit won four titles from 1997 to 2008 despite not drafting higher than No. 19 from 1992 to 2013. Advertisement Boston has had a top-10 pick just twice in 10 years. Just look at the NHL expansion Vegas Golden Knights, who have clinched a playoff berth and are leading the Pacific Division with a team cobbled together from scratch. "A lot of teams have a lot of good hockey players, but there's not many Malkins and Crosbys in the NHL. No, we don't have them," Vegas coach Gerard Gallant said. "It's all about being a team. And we've been a team since Day 1." This year, Nashville is leading the NHL with a roster featuring one top-five draft pick, forward Ryan Johansen, who was acquired in a trade with Columbus, and no other player selected in the top 10. "You don't always have to be real bad for a few years to win," Predators veteran forward Mike Fisher told The AP.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Goalie Pekka Rinne credits Predators management for assembling the team through trades and identifying talent in the later rounds of the draft. The Predators feature six players Nashville selected in the fourth round or lower, including Rinne, an eighth-rounder in 2004. "We've never had to rebuild," Rinne said. "And for a guy like myself being here for a long time, it's nice to have that. You don't have to waste any years." Having a wealth of high picks is no guarantee. Florida has made the playoffs twice since 2001-02 despite having a top-10 pick 10 times over that span. The Oilers have made the playoffs once since 2010 despite selecting first four times. The New York Islanders will miss the playoffs for a sixth time since selecting John Tavares with the No. 1 pick in 2009. After 2015, there are even fewer benefits to finishing last after the NHL altered its draft lottery formula. Now, the last-place team is assured of nothing more than the No. 4 pick, as opposed to No. 2. Advertisement On Wednesday, the NHL announced the team finishing last will have an 18.5 percent chance of landing the first pick, up from 18 percent last year. The odds also improved for teams finishing second to last (13.5 percent, up from 12.1) and third last (11.5 from 10.3). Coyotes forward Brad Richardson wondered whether teams adopting a strategy to lose had lasting effects. "I don't want to say tanking, but when you do tank, I think it sets a precedent in your organization that it's OK to lose, and you're showing the young guys that losing's acceptable," Richardson told The AP. HOLLAND'S FUTURE Red Wings GM Ken Holland told The AP he has received no assurances from the team he'll return for a 21st year, despite reports indicating he will be back. MLive.com on Tuesday cited an unnamed person in reporting Holland will be back "with or without a contract." The Detroit Free Press quoted a person familiar with the situation saying "he's going to be back as the GM," but reported it's unclear how Holland's contract will be structured. Holland, in a text to The AP, declined to discuss whether he'd return without a contract, saying: "I'll talk when the final decision has been made." LEADERS (Through Tuesday's games) Points: McDavid, 102. Goals: Alex Ovechkin (Washington), 45. Game-winning goals: Sean Monahan (Calgary) and Nathan MacKinnon (Colorado), 11. Rookie points: Mathew Barzal (Islanders), 78. Goals-against average (minimum 40 games): Fleury (Vegas), 2.12. GAME OF THE WEEK Top spot in the overall standings could be on the line Sunday, when the Western Conference-leading Predators travel to play East-leading Tampa Bay. ___ More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:54 A.M. E.D.T.
 Shohei Ohtani has a starting assignment, and the Los Angeles Dodgers have a mess on their hands. With the regular season set to begin Thursday, the Angels scheduled Ohtani to make his major league pitching debut Sunday in their fourth game at Oakland. The two-way sensation from Japan is expected to be Los Angeles' designated hitter in at least one of the first three games, but manager Mike Scioscia said Tuesday night the team hadn't decided on an opening-day lineup yet. The 23-year-old Ohtani, who struggled in spring training, was told after the exhibition finale against the Dodgers that he'll pitch Sunday. "He's gotten into the mid-80-pitch range and should be able to get over 90 if he's throwing to his capabilities," Scioscia said. "That's plenty of pitches for him to get deep into the game. We're going to take it one pitch at a time with all of our pitchers." Ohtani was supposed to get an at-bat or two Tuesday night but that didn't happen because the game was called in the bottom of the fifth inning due to a foul-smelling leak that spilled sewage onto the Dodger Stadium field near the home dugout. Advertisement And with that, spring training 2018 came to a repugnant end in Los Angeles. The game was called after a 32-minute delay, giving the Dodgers a 4-3 victory over their Los Angeles rivals. The water main leak left a brown mess pooling in foul territory as the grounds crew spread a drying agent and worked to clean up. Advertisement "I'm not going to tell you what it really was," Dodgers outfielder Andrew Toles said. "It's nasty." There was definitely an undeniable stench, according to players. "I thought it was Gatorade or something coming from the stands. I don't know. They said it was the sewer," Toles said. "I smelled it. It was nasty, man." After about 10 minutes of waiting on the field, both teams returned to their respective dugouts. Umpire crew chief Gerry Davis announced the delay as officials tried to determine if it was a stadium or city issue. "Apparently, there was a pipe backup on two different levels of the stadium," Dodgers president and CEO Stan Kasten said. "We don't know exactly where the backup was, or what caused it. It had something to do with a main pipe here, as well as main pipe outside the stadium." Kasten was unsure if the Dodgers would refund fans, but said officials would discuss the situation Wednesday. "You can always say you've seen everything, but we haven't seen something like that," Scioscia said. "It's unfortunate. We're all winding down spring training. You want to finish strong. When you had a lake forming around the third base area that wasn't going to stop, it's just unfortunate." Both teams open the regular season Thursday, with the Dodgers hosting the rival San Francisco Giants and the Angels playing in Oakland — where leaking sewage at the old Coliseum has also posed a problem in recent years. Advertisement ELSEWHERE AROUND SPRING TRAINING BLUE JAYS 1, CARDINALS 0 With one familiar swing, Vladimir Guerrero Jr. gave baseball fans in Montreal fond flashbacks to the days when his dad was among baseball's best sluggers. For their countrymen in Toronto, that mighty hack may have been a sneak peak at a promising future. Guerrero hit a long home run with two outs in the ninth inning to lift Toronto over St. Louis at Olympic Stadium in Montreal, where his father played much of his Hall of Fame career. The 19-year-old son of Vladimir Guerrero hammered Jack Flaherty's pitch over the wall in left-center to a huge roar from the 25,816 on hand. Fans wearing Montreal Expos paraphernalia jumped and yelled in the stands. Guerrero — wearing his dad's No. 27 — threw his helmet before leaping into a frenzied circle of teammates at home plate. One fan waved a Guerrero Expos jersey as he celebrated. "You don't see many celebrations in spring training games," Blue Jays manager John Gibbons said. "That was pretty neat." Guerrero's dad posted cellphone video on Twitter of the home run taken from near the Blue Jays dugout, calling it (hashtag) priceless. Guerrero Jr. was born in Montreal and was a regular at Olympic Stadium as a toddler, although he doesn't remember much except for the ice cream machine in the Expos clubhouse. He is among baseball's top prospects, but will open the season in Double-A  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "These two days have been amazing for me," he said through a translator. "It's like a dream come true. Of course having that chance to help the team win is something I'm always going to remember." St. Louis starter Luke Weaver pitched three shutout innings and struck out four to finish the spring with a 0.55 ERA. GIANTS 3, ATHLETICS 0 Chris Stratton pitched four-hit ball over five innings for San Francisco in the finale of the three-game Bay Bridge exhibition series. Joe Panik hit a leadoff triple and scored, and Austin Jackson had a two-run single. Advertisement Oakland left-hander A.J. Puk, a top pitching prospect, has an injured elbow and Dr. James Andrews is recommending Tommy John surgery. Puk is the second A's starter diagnosed with a UCL injury this spring. Jharel Cotton had Tommy John surgery last Wednesday. Paul Blackburn is out with forearm tightness and is expected to miss the early part of the season, too. Giants prospect Julian Fernandez was diagnosed with a UCL injury and is seeking a second opinion, but will join ace Madison Bumgarner (broken pinkie) and Jeff Samardzija (strained pectoral) on the disabled list to begin the season. The status of closer Mark Melancon (forearm surgery) for opening day is uncertain. RED SOX 4, CUBS 2 Christian Vazquez had two hits and two RBIs for Boston. No. 4 starter Hector Velazquez made his final tuneup, pitching four scoreless innings. Third baseman Rafael Devers, who left Monday's game with a bruised right knee, is expected to be in the opening-day lineup Thursday against Tampa Bay. Kris Bryant had two hits, including his first triple, for Chicago. Jose Quintana started for the Cubs, allowing just hits in three shutout innings. Boston led both exhibition leagues with a 22-9 record this spring. PIRATES 5, PHILLIES 5, 9 INNINGS Josh Bell hit his fourth homer this spring for Pittsburgh, a three-run drive off Philadelphia newcomer Jake Arrieta. Francisco Cervelli doubled and scored, finishing the spring with a .405 batting average. Jameson Taillon started for the Pirates, pitching three scoreless innings and striking out four. Arrieta went three innings, giving up four runs and seven hits. Aaron Altherr hit his fourth home run for the Phillies. ASTROS 8, BREWERS 1 Carlos Correa socked a grand slam and Charlie Morton fanned eight in 5 1/3 innings of one-hit ball for Houston, which went 21-9 in exhibition play. Milwaukee starter Zach Davies was tagged for six runs — five earned — and six hits in three innings. INDIANS 3, DIAMONDBACKS 3, 9 INNINGS Mike Napoli homered for Cleveland, and Trevor Bauer struck out seven over five innings of three-hit ball against his former team. The 36-year-old Napoli, a 12-year major league veteran with 267 career home runs, accepted a minor league assignment and will begin the season at Triple-A Columbus. Arizona starter Taijuan Walker allowed one run and four hits in five innings. Advertisement TWINS 3, NATIONALS 1 Jose Berrios wrapped up spring training with a 1.42 ERA after tossing three hitless innings with three strikeouts for Minnesota. Trea Turner homered for Washington, and Gio Gonzalez worked three shutout innings of one-hit ball in 46-degree weather. MARINERS 5, ROCKIES 3 Dan Vogelbach hit his seventh homer for Seattle, a three-run shot. Ichiro Suzuki went 0 for 3 leading off and was hitless in 10 spring at-bats after rejoining the Mariners on March 7. Chad Bettis pitched for the Rockies, allowing one run in three innings. Colorado announced that Jon Gray will start on opening day against Arizona, and top prospect Ryan McMahon will break camp with the big league club after hitting .319 this spring with two homers and nine RBIs. TIGERS 2, RAYS 1 Matt Boyd struck out seven in five innings of two-hit ball for Detroit. Tampa Bay starter Jake Faria threw six hitless innings, striking out five. ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JUDITH NEWMANMARCH 28, 2018
 When I was 22 and desperate to escape public relations, I decided to get a job at Rolling Stone. Having no magazine experience was hardly an impediment. It was only a matter of attracting Jann Wenner’s attention. So I worked very hard on my résumé. Then I put it in a pink plastic folder, filled the folder with glitter, attached the folder to some balloons and hired a messenger to deliver it. Because there’s nothing that says “serious investigative journalist” like glitter and balloons. It may surprise you to learn that I didn’t get that job, nor several others with similarly festive deliveries, one involving feathers. Maybe if I’d been applying to Jazz Hands magazine, I’d have had a shot. I realize, in retrospect, that I could have used one or more of the books here: books about getting new jobs, accepting and improving yourself in old ones and learning how to work the system when you don’t come from a place of privilege. Little of the advice involves feathers. In his 20s, Mike Lewis had the kind of career his parents could boast about: Our Son, the Venture Capitalist. And he didn’t hate that life, not at all. It’s just that all he could think about was becoming a professional squash player, devoting his life to a sport with no real prize money and few big sponsors, where you travel the world, crashing on people’s couches. Uh. O.K. then! This dream is one step away from that famous “S.N.L.” skit in which Martin Short and Harry Shearer decide to ditch everything and become Olympic synchronized swimmers, despite the fact that they don’t know how to swim. But it is a dream, and it’s his, and despite the fact that Lewis wasn’t even a great squash player in college, he decides to go for it. And in WHEN TO JUMP: If the Job You Have Isn’t the Life You Want (Holt, $26), he tells us exactly how he made his move. The unintentional hilarity here is that Lewis’s bold leap is more of a whir forward on a Segway. I mean, the guy had an inspirational quote and a map of the world taped to his office wall. But maybe that’s the point: Most of us shouldn’t jump without a certain amount of body armor in the form of saved money, support from friends and family, and endless self-affirmation. What makes this book fun are the collections of stories from fellow jumpers: P.R. executive to bishop in the Episcopal Church, video-game marketer to inventor of the Lyft Carstache, and so forth. The jumps don’t have to be unusual to be moving. I got a little choked up over Teresa Marie Williams, who was told by “an important adult” at her high school that she should rethink her plans to pursue her education because she didn’t come from “a family that goes to college.” She did just that, became a nurse, had a son — and then started medical school in her 40s. Take that, Bozo Guidance Counselor. Advertisement Incidentally, Mike Lewis made it up to the rank of 112th best squash player in the world, traveled to nearly 50 countries, rode in untold numbers of buses and slept on untold numbers of couches. And was very very happy in what many of us would consider the ninth circle of hell. Cue the Eurythmics: Sweet dreams are made of this, and who am I to disagree? Leah Weiss, Ph.D., teaches a course in compassionate leadership at Stanford’s business school, and if that sounds a little like George Carlin’s list of oxymorons (“jumbo shrimp,” “military intelligence”), never fear: She’s got the goods. In HOW WE WORK: Live Your Purpose, Reclaim Your Sanity, and Embrace the Daily Grind (HarperWave, $27.99), Weiss shows how viewing our careers “as an opportunity to practice mindfulness, purposefulness and compassion” will make us better workers and better people. She applies the goals of meditation to the office, not in a “sit on a cushion with your mantra and a vanilla candle” kind of way but by knowing your own mind and heart. She talks about the three aspirational principles of the Tibetan system called dampa sum — making your actions good in the beginning, good in the middle and good in the end. You begin by writing your own mission statement and setting out your core values, continue with “meta-cognition” (understanding how your daily work connects with your personal goals and those of your employer) and end with reflection and a process of “check ins” to collect feedback from your colleagues and see if you’re meeting your own expectations. Weiss’s approach to greater satisfaction and success at work is steeped in evidence-based science. And it’s not just philosophical; there’s plenty of practical advice. Consider, for example, her mental exercise intended to cultivate compassion for an officemate who drives you crazy. This multistep process includes: imagining her outside work, perhaps interacting with her children or taking a walk in the woods; imagining her insecurities, her disappointments; thinking about the people who care for her or a family member who needs her. “Can you imagine meeting her for the first time and enjoying her company?” Weiss asks gently. To which I could only answer: “She wears a MAGA cap and chews with her mouth open, so I still hate her. But thanks for asking!” At least Weiss has given readers an approach that might be more help than the tiny voodoo dolls I used to keep for those special someones.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Gary Burnison’s LOSE THE RÉSUMÉ, LAND THE JOB (Wiley, paper, $30) is less about compassion in the workplace and more about scaring us straight. Burnison, the chief executive of Korn Ferry International, the world’s largest executive recruiting firm, dedicates the book to “everyone who hates his or her job.” He doesn’t mean for readers to actually ditch the résumé; he wants us to understand what a minor part of the job hunt it actually is, particularly now that so much job hunting is done electronically. Hit a button and you’ve applied — and so have thousands of others, often without giving much thought to their qualifications or where they want to live or, essentially, who they are as workers. (Just because you like foosball doesn’t mean you’re temperamentally suited for a start-up.) The point is not “What can you do for me?” but “What can I do for your company?” “Lose the Résumé” breaks down every aspect of job hunting, explaining what matters and what doesn’t. Did you know that as many as 25 percent of all applicants are deep-sixed by their dopey social media pages? “If you’re not careful,” Burnison advises, ominously and accurately, “you can tweet yourself out of a job.” Advertisement Much of what’s here we know instinctively, but it’s very good to be reminded. “Networking poorly is worse than not networking at all,” Burnison writes, as I flashed back to the gynecologist who, in the midst of examining me, asked if I could take a look at his collection of poems about menopause. We’ve all been there — sometimes in stirrups. And finally there’s Stacey Abrams’s MINORITY LEADER: How to Lead From the Outside and Make Real Change (Holt, $28, available later this month). If we don’t have a slavery apologist and accused child molester in the Senate, we can thank black women voters and those who spearheaded registration drives for people of color in the South. Abrams has been a successful tax attorney, entrepreneur and, not least of all, award-winning romance novelist. But she arrived on the national stage when she became House minority leader of the Georgia General Assembly. This year, if she wins the Democratic primary, she could become the first black female governor in American history. Abrams calls “Minority Leader” a “handbook” for outsiders, which means it includes a primer on our country’s power structure for people more likely to have worked on the manor than to be of the manner born. She also tackles the internal barriers, the “fear and otherness” that hold so many back, that keep marginalized people toe-dipping in the system while the privileged cannonball straight in. The second of six children of a “genteel poor” Mississippi family, she abided by her parents’ “trinity of education, faith and service.” Abrams had one early success after another, yet one question haunted her: “I was really good at being a black woman, compared to other black women. But could I be more than that?” For someone who sneaked into the computer lab at Spelman College to plan the next 40 years of her life on a spreadsheet, the answer was obviously “Yes.” But that she could even frame the question in this way speaks volumes. Abrams’s own grit, coupled with her descriptions of much stumbling and self-doubt, will make “Minority Leader” touch you in a way few books by politicians can. In fact, the last one to manage it — biracial, the child of divorce, raised with little money by a single mother — became our 44th president. That’s some pretty serious jumping there. Judith Newman is the author, most recently, of “To Siri With Love: A Mother, Her Autistic Son and the Kindness ofMachines.” Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BR21 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Self-Improvement.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 11:08 A.M. E.D.T.
 By David Margolick “By early 1963, Martin Luther King had stalled and – particularly to younger activists in the SNCC – seemed increasingly irrelevant. He needed to shake things up.” writes David Margolick in “The Promise and the Dream: The Untold Story of Martin Luther King, Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy.” King chose Birmingham, Alabama, which he called the worst big city in race relations in the United States, as the place to do that. In this excerpt from the book, Margolick examines how the Birmingham campaign pushed the Kennedy administration to introduce its bill on civil rights. THE UNKINDEST CUT Everything changed in Birmingham with one tactical decision: to allow black youths to join the depleted and insufficiently fervent ranks of adult marchers, an idea first promoted by the SCLC’s [King's Southern Christian Leadership Conference] James Bevel. Schoolchildren as young as kindergarteners were recruited for the effort with flyers that beckoned “Fight for your freedom first then go to school.” Everyone acknowledged Robert Kennedy’s special bond with children, and not just because he eventually fathered eleven of them himself. Using them here, he cautioned, was “a dangerous business.” Black children, King replied, “are hurt every day.” The “Children’s Crusade,” as Newsweek would dub it, brought endless waves of reinvigorated protests, and nightsticks, and arrests, and police dogs, and fire hoses forceful enough to strip bark (and clothing), and the instantly immortal photographs of black protesters besieged by German shepherds and columns of water that circulated worldwide. The most famous, of a dog lunging at a young black boy, appeared on May 3; [President] John Kennedy said it made him sick, and he was far from the only person to have that reaction. “Approximately then some whites in the North, who had not previously cared one way or another, decided that this was too much,” Mary McGrory wrote. One of those white northerners was Robert Kennedy. “When you see southern sheriffs attack Negro children, you see the wrongness of it all,” he subsequently told Richard Reeves of the New York Times. On May 4, Burke Marshall [assistant attorney general In charge of the Justice Department's civil rights division] arrived and began an intense round of meetings between black leaders and the “mules,” or leading businessmen, of the city. As entrenched as it was, official segregation at least proved to be a surprisingly shaky edifice, mostly because it was bad for business — a fact the low-key, methodical Marshall pointed out. “The fire trucks are out, there are thousands of people in the streets,” he told the moguls. “You have a choice. You can have this, or you can let Negroes eat at the lunch counters of department stores.” Less than a week later, the parties had reached a tentative deal, one that would, among other things, end segregated lunch counters, fitting rooms, and drinking fountains within ninety days. That meant, reported Charles Portis (he later wrote True Grit) in the New York Herald Tribune, that [Birmingham's Public Safety Commissioner] Bull Connor “will at last be able to sit down in Loveman’s Department Store and have a Coke with Dr. King.” King, he wrote, “is a very somber man who almost never smiles, but yesterday he was beaming.” Advertisement Never one to gloat or let anyone become too complacent or to cast judgments on one group while exempting another, Robert Kennedy noted at a press conference that while southern papers hadn’t shown pictures of a dog attacking a black man, the northern papers had skipped photographs of a black man attacking a dog and a policeman with a knife and bottle. So people in the two places, he said, were “hardly talking about the same thing,” and for things really to change, that had to change. “Over the period of the next decade and the next twelve months, really, all of us in all sections of the country have a hell of a lesson to learn on the importance of getting a dialogue going between the people of the North and South,” he said. Advertisement On May 14, with the truce in Birmingham holding, John Kennedy met at the White House with a group of newspaper editors from Alabama. One local editor implored the president to get Martin Luther King to leave town — something Kennedy said he was unable to do. But a couple of others conceded that Alabama needed to move forward on race relations and thanked Kennedy for helping it do so. Only once — when someone described King as a White House “pet” — did the president grow irritated. (He’d met the man only twice, he said, which wasn’t quite right.) As the session ended, a majority of the newspapermen asked Kennedy for his autograph. “He did not bark, like Bobby,” Grover Hall of the Advertiser wrote. The group then headed en masse to the Justice Department to see Bobby, who praised King for helping to quiet things down in Birmingham. “You have to understand this about Martin Luther King,” the attorney general told them. “If he loses his effort to keep the Negroes nonviolent, the result could be disastrous — not only in Birmingham but all over the country.” It was King, he noted, who’d gone around to the pool halls of black Birmingham collecting knives, telling people to stay off the streets, to be nonviolent. “If King loses,” he warned, “worse leaders are going to take his place. Look at the Black Muslims.” In the privacy of the White House a few days later, Robert Kennedy painted an unflattering picture of black Birmingham, one reflecting some of his old condescension. “Many in the Negro leadership didn’t know what they were demonstrating about. They didn’t know whether they were demonstrating to get rid of Bull Connor, or whether they were demonstrating about the stores, or whether they’re demonstrating against the city government,” he told other high officials, including the president. “None of the white community knew what they were demonstrating about, and none of the white community would get near the Negro community at that juncture because they felt that they were being disorderly and so nobody was talking to anybody.” In those same discussions, Kennedy warned of potential Birminghams everywhere, and not just in the South. “There must be a dozen places where we’re having major problems today,” he noted, citing how Chicago mayor Richard Daley had described surliness in the black community there. “The Negroes are all mad for no reason at all, and they want to fight,” he continued. “[Daley] says you can’t have a moderate Negro anymore.” And, he noted, the moderates who were still around were fighting among themselves: “[Civil rights activist] Roy Wilkins hates Martin Luther King.” The brutal reality of racial marginalization and the absence of legal tools to deal with it led the administration to a fateful decision: it would, at long last, introduce a civil rights bill, one that would, among other things, ban racial discrimination in public accommodations, education, employment, and housing. Robert Kennedy’s press spokesman, Edwin Guthman, recalled how, en route to a conference in Asheville, North Carolina, on May 17, Kennedy and Burke Marshall sketched out its essential provisions.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The bill’s chances, Kennedy knew, were bleak. But even if it failed, it would have succeeded: as important as enacting something was, as he later put it, it was equally important “to obtain the confidence of the Negro population in their government and in the white majority.” In the meantime, he suggested a series of meetings with various groups — elected officials, theater owners, store owners, lawyers, ministers — to discuss and ease the tensions, to encourage voluntary measures until the law could be changed, and to build a consensus for such a measure. The president agreed, though he specified that they see Martin Luther King last, after the southern officials and businessmen, and after the bill had gone up. “Otherwise, it will look like he got me to do it,” John Kennedy explained. “The trouble with King is that everybody thinks he’s our boy, anyway. So everything he does, everybody says we stuck him in there. We ought to have him well surrounded. . . . King is so hot these days that it’s like Marx coming to the White House.” Thanks to a primitive White House taping system, the sense that critics had always had of the Kennedy administration — that it had to soft-peddle, if not hide, its ties to Martin Luther King — is here magically and colorfully confirmed. To King, Birmingham effectively bifurcated John Kennedy’s presidency. Formerly, he was cautious and begrudging; now he was fully engaged, “ready really to throw off political considerations and see the real moral issues.” “I think Birmingham did it,” King later recalled. “Birmingham created such a crisis in race relations that it was an issue which could no longer be ignored.” Only now could the president see “that segregation was morally wrong and . . . did something to the souls of both the segregator and the segregated.” Advertisement It was a moment, like Lincoln’s before the Emancipation Proclamation, when Kennedy realized he had to lead morally, rather than merely parrot the popular consensus. In the process, he won over King himself. [Stanley] Levison [King's lawyer and adviser] characterized the relationship between Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King as “rather formal.” “They met mostly in meetings, except probably on those occasions when they discussed me,” he told Schlesinger in 1976. “But Martin liked the Kennedys.” And he instructed Levison to put a line in the book he was ghostwriting for him about the Birmingham crisis that, although he’d never cast a presidential ballot before, he planned to endorse John Kennedy for reelection in 1964. The result, Levison later told Schlesinger, was a “de facto alliance” between the Kennedys and King and his movement. “They reacted positively and negatively so that any partisan can find ample quotes for his case,” he said of John and Robert Kennedy on race. But “both brothers,” he went on, “scandalously ignorant at the outset, pushed their way to a new perception that was more than the timeworn reformism. They were aware that the society needed major surgery to accomplish irreversible changes.” Perhaps an idealistic John Kennedy had at long last shaken off — or liberated — the more coldly pragmatic Robert. But it’s far more likely that Robert Kennedy changed him (though only after first changing himself). Burke Marshall saw the results. “Every single person who spoke about it in the White House — every single one of them — was against President Kennedy’s sending up that bill . . . against making [civil rights] a moral issue,” Marshall later said. “The conclusive voice within the government at that time, there’s no question about it at all, [was] that Robert Kennedy was the one. He urged it, he felt it, he understood it. And he prevailed.” Only the president felt the same way, Marshall said, and “he got it from his brother.” “Even the president himself was not always rejoicing in the fact that we were doing it,” Robert Kennedy later told Anthony Lewis, referring to the civil rights bill. “He would ask me every four days, ‘Do you think we did the right thing by sending the legislation? Look at the trouble it’s got us in.’ But always in a semi-jocular way. It always seemed to me always quite clear that that’s what we needed to do.” (From: “The Promise and the Dream,” by David Margolick. Copyright © 2018 David Margolick. A Lawrence Schiller book published by RosettaBooks. Publication date: April 3, 2018.) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By AMANDA HESSMARCH 28, 2018
 In the spring of 2016, Zach Braff reported to the offices of the producer John Davis in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles, looking to pitch himself as the director of a film. “Mmm, nah,” Mr. Davis told him. “You’re not going to do a movie. You’re going to do a TV show.” Mr. Davis had recently optioned a podcast — a first for his company — and he wanted Mr. Braff to star in a sitcom version. Mr. Braff (“Scrubs,” “Garden State”) was skeptical, but he agreed to give it a listen. “I binged the whole thing,” Mr. Braff said. The podcast was “StartUp,” the journalist Alex Blumberg’s excruciatingly transparent account of quitting his job at NPR and struggling to create his own podcast company, Gimlet, with very little money and even less business experience. Mr. Blumberg recorded his raw conversations with his wife, his awkward haggling over equity with his new partner and his employees’ complaints of burnout. It was while listening to a particularly uncomfortable scene, one in which Mr. Blumberg audibly flails while pitching his business to the tech industry angel investor Chris Sacca, that Mr. Braff recalled thinking: “Oh, my god. I wish I was watching this.’” Now you can — sort of. “Alex, Inc.,” a new show on ABC, is a loose “StartUp” adaptation starring Mr. Braff as Alex Schuman, a slapstick avatar for Mr. Blumberg. It’s just one of many podcasts angling for a Hollywood moment. Advertisement Among them: The Los Angeles Times podcast about a real-life scammer, “Dirty John,” which has been snapped up by two networks — a scripted anthology series is in the works at Bravo, and a true crime series at Oxygen. A “Welcome to Night Vale” TV series is in development at FX with Sony Pictures Television, and another paranormal scripted show from the Night Vale family, “Alice Isn’t Dead,” is under development with Universal Cable Productions. Propagate Content, the production company that developed the horror podcast “Lore” into an Amazon series, has also scooped up the true crime podcasts “Sword and Scale” and “Up and Vanished” for development deals. Another Gimlet show, “Crimetown,” is in development at FX. And the podcasting company Panoply has signed with WME to develop its own adaptations. Advertisement “In the last year or so, podcasts have been the thing,” said Matt Tarses, a “Scrubs” alum who created “Alex, Inc.” A podcast offers up intellectual property in a particularly appealing format — compared with a book or even a script, it’s a stronger proof of concept of how a show or movie would actually play out. “It’s one step closer to seeing it onscreen,” Mr. Tarses said. “You already know what it sounds like.” Like many of the properties bending Hollywood’s ear, “StartUp” is a very successful podcast; it’s been downloaded tens of millions of times since its debut in 2014. But podcast listeners still constitute a very different audience than viewers of network sitcoms, with different sensibilities. And the elements that make a podcast spark — internal conflict, patient world building, conversational digressions — don’t translate seamlessly to TV. “There were things we loved about the podcast, but we had to turn it into an ABC show,” Mr. Braff said. So the inside story of starting a podcasting company is refocused as a broad family comedy. Mr. Blumberg’s real-life business partner, the Gimlet co-founder and president Matt Lieber — who holds an M.B.A. from M.I.T. and started his career at NPR and WNYC — is recast as a scrappy salesman played by Michael Imperioli. It’s a bid to differentiate the characters and inject an Everyman foil to the insular and often absurd podcaster culture on display. “We wanted to have an in for the layman who has no clue what a podcast is,” Mr. Braff said. “He’s a character who is comically naïve to this whole world.” Then there’s an invented character, the female producer Deirdre, whose central personality trait is that she is hopelessly in love with Alex — a retrograde note not on display in Gimlet’s offices or in its shows. Also, Alex carries a comically oversized old-time microphone with him everywhere he goes, a way to visually telegraph his job to viewers. In real life, “it’s not so big,” Mr. Blumberg conceded. Mr. Sacca, though, is unchanged: After an acting crash-course from Mr. Braff, the investor played himself. Personality-based podcasts offer the temptation of a more effortless adaptation. Earlier this year, HBO spun the WNYC podcast “2 Dope Queens,” starring the comedians Phoebe Robinson and Jessica Williams, into a four-part live special, and the network has struck a deal with the Obama staffers-turned-podcasters of “Pod Save America” to air a live series in the lead-up to the 2018 midterms. Advertisement “We didn’t want to dramatically alter their formula, and that took the pressure off them to continue doing what they were already doing so well,” Nina Rosenstein, executive vice president for programming at HBO, said of “2 Dope Queens.” Some transitions from audio to visuals feel natural: The comedians Desus Nice and the Kid Mero’s cult hit “Bodega Boys” podcast has translated easily to the Viceland late-night talk show “Desus & Mero.” Others, not so much. When the beloved podcast host Bill Simmons tried to take his interview style to HBO, on the late-night program “Any Given Wednesday,” he floundered onscreen. And even the most promising projects can fall through: “Serial” was optioned in 2015 for development by Phil Lord and Chris Miller, the filmmaking team behind “The Lego Movie” and “21 Jump Street,” but the project languished and the option has since expired. The Serial team is now in talks to adapt its American gothic true-crime serial “S-Town.” “The mediums want very different things,” said Mr. Blumberg, who previously worked for “This American Life,” including on that radio program’s TV adaptation that aired on Showtime from 2007 to 2009.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But increasingly, podcast makers are behaving more like TV and film companies, developing and packaging projects themselves. When Mr. Davis came knocking for “StartUp” in 2015, Gimlet ceded creative control of the adaptation to the network. At the time, Mr. Blumberg said, “we were barely putting our podcasts out the door.” Now, Gimlet is developing and pitching its podcasts instead of waiting for Hollywood to call, and in January, the company started Gimlet Pictures, a new division headed by Chris Giliberti. “Homecoming,” the podcast network’s first scripted thriller, is now headed to Amazon, and this time, “our fingerprints are all over it creatively,” Mr. Lieber said. Mr. Giliberti has an office on the studio lot, and he flies out to Los Angeles from Gimlet’s Brooklyn offices every couple of weeks. Eli Horowitz, who wrote the Gimlet show with the screenwriter Micah Bloomberg, is acting as showrunner of the Amazon series. Gimlet also recruited the show’s director, Sam Esmail of “Mr. Robot”; helped staff the writer’s room; and cast the star, Julia Roberts. (Gimlet’s representation with CAA, Ms. Roberts’s agency, helped.) Gimlet is also working to develop an episode of its tech podcast “Reply All” — about a charismatic figure who used a new technology, radio, to manipulate the masses — into a film. The director Richard Linklater and the star Robert Downey Jr. are attached. Gimlet also recently recruited a new chief marketing officer, Jenny Wall, who’s worked at Hulu and Netflix. When Gimlet recorded the first season of “StartUp,” the drama of the show hinged on the financial and personal risk of establishing a podcasting company. But relatively low-cost audio shows carry less financial risk than TV and film projects. Advertisement When Gimlet produced “Homecoming,” it could land in-demand actors like Oscar Isaac and Catherine Keener because it required only a couple days of work in front of a mic. The same is true of the network’s next scripted series, its first dramedy. “Actors are open to doing a show with us because they don’t have to put on makeup, they don’t have to put on their Spanx, they don’t have to go on location,” Mr. Lieber said. “It’s fun, interesting creative work that doesn’t require so much.” Then, when the company pivots to casting an adaptation, it helps to already have respected actors in the audio version. As Gimlet pursued Ms. Roberts for “Homecoming,” it was able to send her the podcast with Ms. Keener in the role to help prove the company’s bona fides. Studios and networks are not only drawn to the proven storytelling a podcast provides, but they also like the built-in fan base — one that’s easier to reach and engage than, say, people who have bought a book. Tens of millions of listeners have downloaded StartUp, and “now Gimlet can go back to those people and tell them about ‘Alex, Inc.,” Mr. Davis said. “It’s great synergy.” For podcasters, adaptations also offer the prospect of drawing even bigger audiences to the original audio show. Aaron Mahnke of the podcast “Lore,” who now serves as executive producer and narrator of the Amazon adaptation, has seen new listeners stream in from Amazon. These days, “a story can exist in a variety of different mediums,” he said. “It all feeds itself.” But only to a point. “When we see headlines announcing a podcast gold rush, there’s a shift in the people who bring content to the table,” Mr. Mahnke said of “Lore,” which hit the jackpot with its Amazon deal. “I’m so in love with the medium of podcasting, and I’m conscious of how we can manage this growth without burning our listeners,” he said. “My caveat is this: Don’t get into it for the money.” A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page AR12 of the New York edition with the headline: Giving Podcasts the Hollywood Treatment.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 

Michael Nelson

 
VIETNAM '67
MARCH 28, 2018
 Fifty years later, the 1968 presidential election and the Vietnam War still shadow American politics. But the war actually had little effect on the vote that November — even though surveys showed that Vietnam was by far the most important issue on voters’ minds, they saw little difference between the Republican nominee, Richard Nixon, and his Democratic opponent, Hubert H. Humphrey, both of whom they scored “slightly conservative” on the University of Michigan’s seven-point “Vietnam scale.” The real consequences of the election and the war were on the Democratic Party, with collateral effects on the Republicans. The Democrats’ united, confident and longstanding commitment to the spread of liberal values throughout the world eroded in the aftermath. Fragmented by internal divisions over the war, the party also overhauled its process for choosing presidential candidates in ways that upended its previous domination by Southerners, unions and big-city bosses. The decade had begun with the election of John F. Kennedy, whose main issue in the 1960 presidential campaign was the Cold War, which he believed America was losing to the Soviet Union. Kennedy pledged in his Inaugural Address to do whatever was necessary “to assure the survival and success of liberty,” a declaration that placed him squarely in the tradition of his party. Ever since Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt led the United States onto the world stage as a promoter of liberal values during the first half of the 20th century, most Democrats had been comfortable with this role. Indeed, an animating premise of Democratic liberalism was that the federal government has the ability to solve virtually any problem it chooses to take on, domestic or foreign. Advertisement Soon after taking office, Kennedy began escalating American military involvement in Vietnam. In June 1961, following the failed Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba, he told James Reston of The New York Times that “we have a problem in making our power credible” and “Vietnam is the place.” By November 1963, Kennedy had dispatched 16,300 military advisers to South Vietnam. As late as the morning of Nov. 22, he said, “Without the United States, South Vietnam would collapse overnight.” This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Assuming the presidency when Kennedy was assassinated a few hours later, Lyndon B. Johnson felt bound to continue his predecessor’s course. Less confident about Vietnam than he was about domestic matters, Johnson regularly asked the foreign policy advisers he inherited from Kennedy — chiefly Secretary of State Dean Rusk, Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara, and his national security adviser, McGeorge Bundy — what Kennedy would have done, and then he did it. Their confident recommendation was that the American commitment to victory in Vietnam must be maintained. After Johnson was elected in 1964 to a term in his own right, hawkish pressures from the administration’s Kennedy alumni intensified. In February 1965 Bundy returned from South Vietnam and said that the war was lost unless the United States launched a sustained bombing campaign against the North. Johnson quickly approved Operation Rolling Thunder, which lasted, with brief pauses, for three years, the largest sustained air campaign in the history of warfare. With repeated reassurance from his advisers that eventually a “crossover point” would be reached at which the Communists decided they couldn’t win, Johnson steadily increased the American troop presence in Vietnam, which rose above a half-million. Advertisement To raise the manpower needed, Johnson saw conscription as a less politically risky approach than calling up the reserves or National Guard, which would have forced many married, middle-class men to leave their jobs and families. College students, whose numbers had swelled to 7.5 million from 2.1 million in 1952, became increasingly alarmed that the draft soon would extend to them. “The draft was the best organizing tool we had,” said the antiwar activist Sam Brown. Not just male students but also their sisters and girlfriends joined protests against the war on campuses and in Washington. Demonstrations were not the only manifestation of the growing opposition to the war. Senator Eugene McCarthy and — after seeing how vulnerable Johnson was to an intraparty challenge when McCarthy nearly won the March 12 New Hampshire primary — Senator Robert F. Kennedy entered the race for the Democratic nomination. Days afterward, Johnson’s “wise men,” 14 high-ranking foreign policy officials from recent administrations who previously had endorsed his conduct of the war, told the president that “we must take steps to disengage.” Johnson withdrew from the election at the end of the month. As the spring primary season unfolded, McCarthy vied with Kennedy to be the main antiwar alternative to Vice President Humphrey, who delayed announcing his candidacy until April 27, too late to compete in the primaries. Kennedy won all but one head-to-head primary contest with McCarthy before being assassinated on June 4. But even if Kennedy had lived, Humphrey’s nomination was essentially sealed by support from the Democratic Party’s Southern, labor and organizational wings, which dominated delegate selection and, ultimately, controlled the nomination. Humphrey wanted to move his party’s platform in a slightly dovish direction to placate Kennedy and McCarthy supporters, but he backed off when Johnson told him that doing so would “endanger American troops,” that he “would have their blood on my hands.” The consequence was that the Democratic platform ended up more hawkish on Vietnam than the Republican one, which at least called for a “de-Americanization” of the war. Plagued by war protesters and trailing Nixon badly in the polls, Humphrey pledged at the end of September to stop the bombing of North Vietnam. His campaign steadily gained strength from that day on, rising from a low of 29 percent in a Gallup poll early that fall to near parity with Nixon by Election Day. Nixon’s victory, however narrow, broke the Democratic Party’s record of seven victories in the previous nine elections, most of them by a landslide. Once united in support of an assertive foreign policy, Democrats now were fiercely divided entering the 1972 presidential nominating contest. One leading contender, the strongly anti-Communist Senator Henry Jackson, was squarely in the old Democratic tradition. With support from party heavyweights such as the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president George Meany and Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago, he may well have been nominated under the rules that prevailed in 1968. But in a concession to antiwar delegates at the 1968 convention, Humphrey had not opposed a resolution requiring that in the future “all feasible efforts” would be “made to assure that delegates are selected through primary, convention or committee procedures open to public participation.” A postelection commission headed by Senator George McGovern and Representative Donald Fraser fleshed out this resolution with rules requiring that every delegate in 1972 and after be chosen in a primary or caucus open to every Democratic voter. With grass-roots party activists now driving delegate selection, McGovern won 15 primaries and Jackson none. Humphrey had not won any primaries either in 1968, but under the pre-McGovern-Fraser rules that did not prevent the party’s leaders from making him the nominee. In 1972 these leaders were outshouted by war opponents who had carried McGovern to victory in the primaries. Advertisement McGovern lost the election to Nixon, but the new activist-centered party he midwifed remained. The party lost interest in using American power, and spent the next generation trying to constrain it. Democratic Congresses voted to hem in Nixon’s war-making power by enacting the War Powers Resolution and forbade President Gerald Ford to continue to supply arms to the government of South Vietnam, which quickly fell to the Communists. They hamstrung President Ronald Reagan’s efforts to roll back Communist advances in Central America and did their best to impose a “nuclear freeze” on America’s arsenal. They opposed President George H. W. Bush’s Gulf war. Only with victory in the Cold War in the early 1990s did Democrats begin regain a trace of their old confidence that American involvement in the world, especially for humanitarian reasons, should sometimes be embraced. Bill Clinton, the party’s victorious nominee in 1992 and 1996, made clear that he was not a “McGovern Democrat.” The Republican Party was a bystander to the changes in the presidential nominating process, but was still affected by them. The Democrats’ move toward a primaries-based system required alterations to state election laws that opened Republican nominations to grass-roots capture as well, albeit grudgingly and with party leaders better able to hold the reins of power for a longer time. But just as the Democratic nomination after 1968 was won by political outsiders such as McGovern in 1972 and, four years later, Jimmy Carter, so eventually was the Republican. How else to explain the ability of history’s ultimate outsider, Donald Trump, to become the 2016 Republican nominee despite the near unanimous opposition of established party leaders? And is it mere coincidence that what had happened among Democrats starting with McGovern finally happened among Republicans? Voters in both parties have always been more reluctant than public officials to embrace foreign aid, military deployments and multinational agreements. In 2016, Republican primary voters seized the opportunity to choose a candidate who disdained his party’s previous support of these pillars of an assertive foreign policy. History doesn’t repeat itself, but sometimes it does rhyme. Michael Nelson, a professor of political science at Rhodes College in Memphis and a senior fellow at the University of Virginia’s Miller Center, is the author of “Trump’s First Year.” Subscribe to the Vietnam &apos;67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:47 P.M. E.D.T.
 By David Margolick On April 4, 1968, a single gunshot killed civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. on a motel balcony in Memphis. On June 5 of that same year, Senator Robert F. Kennedy — brother of assassinated President John F. Kennedy, the former U.S. Attorney General and a presidential candidate — was fatally shot at a Los Angeles hotel after winning California's Democratic primary. In this excerpt from "The Promise and the Dream: The Untold Story of Martin Luther King, Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy," David Margolick examines the relationship between the two men who shaped the era's struggle for civil rights in America.  AFTER THE ASSASSINATION Back they went to Room 306 of the Lorraine Motel. Could the grieving disciples of Martin Luther King, Jr., have possibly chosen a grimmer spot to reconvene — the spot where he’d been murdered only a few hours earlier, where his blood still stained the cement on the balcony outside? And yet when they left the hospital in Memphis where King had died on the evening of April 4, 1968, what better place was there to mourn him than where he’d spent much of his last day on earth? Gathered there, with King’s personal effects nearby — his small attaché case, a crumpled white shirt, a can of Hidden Magic hairspray, his Bible, a half-filled Styrofoam coffee cup, a pair of glass tumblers, and the remnants of a dessert — Ralph Abernathy, Andrew Young, and the others grappled with the catastrophe that had just befallen them. What would now happen to their movement? Who could take King’s place? What if his murder was only the first of a series that was still under way? Who among them would be next? And how could they help stop the rioting that had broken out in ghettos across America — the violent antithesis of everything for which King had stood? But the same nineteen-inch Philco Starlite television set that beamed scenes of America aflame that night also brought some consolation, from Indianapolis, where Senator Robert F. Kennedy had spoken shortly after King had been declared dead. Huddled against the cold in his big brother’s old overcoat, he told a stunned and edgy crowd in the city’s most dangerous neighborhood that King had just been killed, then pleaded for calm and brotherhood, reminding everyone — as if anyone could not have known — that someone he’d loved had also been killed, and also by a white man. And unlike so many other cities that night, Indianapolis had stayed calm. Advertisement “We’d wanted to get on television and tell people not to fight, not to burn down the cities,” recalled Andrew Young. “We were trying to get the message out to people, ‘This is not what Dr. King would have you doing.’ But the press didn’t want to talk to us. They were right there at the hospital, and all they wanted to do was talk about the autopsy. Or they were going around chasing the kids with the firebombs, trying to interview them. It was almost like they were trying to provoke a riot. Advertisement “We were saying, ‘Look, Dr. King has gone. The important thing now is for us to keep his work going, and people are out in the streets now doing things that he wouldn’t want them to do.’ They weren’t interested in that. Bobby Kennedy’s was the only voice we identified with that night. We were grateful he was out there.” He almost hadn’t been. Kennedy’s most senior advisers, the ones running his fledgling presidential campaign, had urged him to cancel the event: doing anything political on such a night would look bad, and going into the ghetto was just too dangerous. (Just be sure that in any statement he put out, they counseled, he not suggest he’d been too afraid to speak.) So had the mayor of Indianapolis, Richard Lugar, a lifelong resident who’d never set foot around 17th and Broadway, where a couple thousand people, nearly all of them black, had already gathered. So had the Indianapolis police. So had the customarily fearless Ethel Kennedy, who’d gone back to the hotel, praying in the back seat every minute en route. Even Kennedy might have had second thoughts. While his relationship with King had slowly improved from contentious to careful to respectful over the eight years they’d known each other, and their causes had come increasingly to overlap, the two men had never been close: the racial and cultural divide between them had simply been too broad. They’d become allies, but never had they been friends. Why would Kennedy, of all people, subject himself to such a risk? And yet, improbably, Bobby Kennedy, a near-total stranger to black America only ten years earlier, felt more at home in it now than any other white politician in America — and more welcome, and comfortable, there than he would have in ostensibly safer and more “respectable” places. When the moment came, he knew instantly what he wanted, and needed, and had promised, to do. So when, shortly after he’d landed in Indianapolis, police officials reiterated their warning, he brushed it aside. “My family and I could lay down in the street there and they wouldn’t bother me,” he told them with a confidence bordering on bravado that would have been unimaginable from just about any other white person in America. “If they would bother you, you’re the one with the problem.” That everyone urged him to stay away was, for him, only another reason to go. The story of Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy is hard to tell because they left so few fragments of it behind. For two such famous men whose lives and fates were so closely intertwined, there was only a scant paper trail. Lots of what happened between them happened privately, mostly in unrecorded phone calls, beyond the reach of journalists and historians. They evidently wanted it that way. And then, in the last few years of their lives, it trailed off almost entirely into telepathy. As often as they came to appear together posthumously — in the memorial drawings, photographs, tapestries, and crockery, usually in triptychs with John F. Kennedy, found largely in black homes — there are few photographs of the two, most of them snapshots or group pictures. In none of them can they be seen engaging — talking to each other, smiling at each other, shaking each other’s hand… They were roughly the same age — Kennedy barely three years older. Both had larger-than-life, tyrannical fathers. Both were deeply religious. Both were charismatic. Both were ever in a hurry, for each knew about the capriciousness and brevity of life. But their differences — not just in race and class but in geographic origins, temperament, power, and position — were much more dramatic… Advertisement In one sense, Kennedy’s journey had been shorter: he’d been born into wealth and fame and never strayed far from it, while King had been born obscure and became one of the most famous people in the world. In another, Kennedy’s path was far longer. Early in his career, he’d been better known for his hatred than his love… The term for him was “ruthless,” and rarely, if ever, has a single word attached itself to anyone so tenaciously. It popped up so often — in virtually every profile — that it became a running joke: he’d call himself “Senator Ruthless” or sign his notes that way. People were forever diagnosing the many, many moments when Robert Kennedy changed out of that. Perhaps that meant he never really did, or had and then relapsed. By the end, though, there was little doubt that he was profoundly altered… King, by contrast, didn’t so much change as deepen. Though his faith occasionally faltered, there were few epiphanies. He just grew more famous, ambitious, revered and inspiring, loathed and threatening, angry, bitter, radical, desperate. As elusive as it was, King’s relationship with Bobby Kennedy was much deeper, more personal, and more intricate than his relationship with Jack, and not just because it lasted twice as long. Though there were some exceptions — like the time in June 1963 when John Kennedy escorted King through the Rose Garden and warned him he was under surveillance, a gesture for which King was profoundly grateful — Attorney General Robert Kennedy was usually his point of contact. That meant three years of tense telephone standoffs, telegrammed pleas for protection, stiff, formal, typewritten complaints, and, occasionally, compliments. For both Kennedys, King meant trouble — a distraction from the things, like managing the Cold War or the American economy, they’d come to Washington to do. “Until the end of 1963, every big demonstration or turmoil that Martin King led was a problem for the president, so that affected the way Bob Kennedy would look at it,” Robert Kennedy’s key deputy at the Justice Department, Burke Marshall, later said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It was Robert Kennedy who had helped spring King from jail in Georgia; saved his life (or so he thought) when King huddled in the basement as an angry mob besieged a Montgomery, Alabama, church; pleaded with him to halt the Freedom Rides; and, when King refused to drop two aides with past communist ties, directed that his telephone be tapped. Theirs was an uneven relationship, and for King, a slightly degrading one: he was the black man invariably asking for things, and Kennedy the white man doling them out, but only when his brother’s political interests permitted. King was the one to say “please” and “thank you.” King was not without his powers — he’d arguably gotten John Kennedy elected, and he was the custodian of a large chunk of his legacy. And while he hectored, lectured, criticized, and exasperated Robert Kennedy, he also helped educate him. When they’d met, Kennedy had little experience with, or interest in, or understanding of, or empathy for blacks. King helped coax out Bobby Kennedy’s better angels, especially with the 1963 protests in Birmingham that led to the Civil Rights Act of 1964. But a little boy with a distended belly sitting on the dirt floor of a shack in the Mississippi delta may have done more to change Robert Kennedy than Martin Luther King ever did. The ostensibly spiritual King approached Bobby Kennedy with a hardheadedness that the pragmatic Kennedy would have admired. He had no illusion about Kennedy’s instincts, which were viewed initially by the skeptical civil rights community as authoritarian, pragmatic, and not especially sympathetic. But it was Robert Kennedy with whom he knew he’d have to deal, and he ordered his colleagues, most notably Harry Belafonte, to go find Kennedy’s moral center, and not return until they had. Following President Kennedy’s assassination, much changed between the two. As a United States senator, Kennedy no longer lorded over King and had fewer plums to dispense. He was freer to identify with King, or to distance himself from him, and did both. And King had fewer favors to ask. Advertisement So, over the last four years of their truncated lives, they barely saw each other — maybe only once: at hearings on urban poverty before a committee on which Kennedy sat. Their various underlings sometimes communicated, but that was largely it; even those surrogates didn’t know how often, if ever, they got together, or spoke in private. No longer compelled to deal with each other, they didn’t. Inveterately social and intellectually adventurous, Kennedy probably invited more blacks to his home — the black essayist and novelist James Baldwin among them — than any white politician of his era, but Martin Luther King was never among them… And yet, their preoccupations and goals — ending the war in Vietnam; tackling racial discrimination in the United States, South Africa, and elsewhere; fighting poverty — increasingly overlapped… When, in 1966, Kennedy visited Chief Albert Luthuli, the South African civil rights activist and Nobel Peace Prize winner living in internal exile, he is thought to have delivered a letter from King. After Kennedy toured the poverty-stricken Mississippi delta, King praised him. While Lyndon Johnson remained mum, Kennedy congratulated King for winning the Nobel Peace Prize. King had moved his activism up north to Chicago, in part, at Kennedy’s urging. Only three weeks before his flight to Indianapolis, Kennedy vied for King’s endorsement as he ran for president. But that was an exception — a bow to the polyglot politics of California, which was to hold its presidential primary on June 4, 1968. Politically, Kennedy typically took care not to cozy up to King, [whose] views on Vietnam — he favored immediate withdrawal — were far too extreme for Kennedy to embrace, as was his larger critique of American foreign policy and culture… Stylistically, Kennedy seemed to prefer the company of grittier black leaders, like the ones who’d organized the rally for him in Indianapolis. Kennedy might have been bitter over King’s sex-laced wisecracks about his late brother and his wife, overheard and recorded and then gleefully transmitted to him by Hoover’s FBI. But guilt too, may have been a barrier… For his part, King never got in bed with politicians, even the most promising, and sympathetic: invariably, they’d disappoint him. Unless he kept them guessing, and bidding for his support, they’d take him for granted. “Sometimes you can’t dine with the president and represent vigorously black people in America,” King once said… Then there was always the question of just how independent Bobby Kennedy really was. “We considered him our number one ally but we also knew that Hoover had more on him than he had on us and we never knew when he’d try to pull the string,” said Andrew Young.   “I don’t know what it was, but they just were not pals,” said a longtime Kennedy aide, Peter Edelman. “They were shadow-boxing a lot of the time,” recalled William vanden Heuvel, a key Kennedy aide who was close to King as well. “Wary” is the word most frequently invoked to describe them. “They were friends, and didn’t even know that they were friends,” said U.S. Representative John Lewis, who worked with them both… King would probably not have endorsed Kennedy in 1968 — he never endorsed anyone — but would have made it clear Kennedy was his choice. In other ways, he was moving toward Kennedy, like in the mass protest he was planning in Washington when he was killed… “What do I say?” Kennedy had asked his press secretary, Frank Mankiewicz, on the flight into Indianapolis that night [of King's murder.] Should he use what his speechwriters had hastily prepared for him, or go with his gut, even though he had never been the gifted orator his brother was, and rarely spoke extemporaneously, and had never talked of King publicly before? In fact, as was often true when Kennedy asked such questions, he already had his answer. Advertisement Standing on the back of a flatbed truck at 17th and Broadway, he spoke for seven minutes. He held some notes, but after glancing at them at the beginning, he never referred to them again. As moving as his speech that night in cold and drizzly Indianapolis had been, it elicited little commentary afterward: it came too late for the morning papers, and, like King’s equally memorable remarks the night before — his last speech, the one about having been to the mountaintop — it was lost in the enormity of the assassination. But in Room 306 of the Lorraine Motel, Kennedy’s words were duly noted… Kennedy could never replace King. But to his disciples back at the Lorraine Motel that night, and throughout the black community, he had picked up his torch. In him, everyone in that room at that grim moment seemed to agree, resided pretty much all of whatever hope remained. There was but one question about that torch: how long Bobby Kennedy would get to hold it. “I don’t know, I almost feel like somebody said, ‘He’s probably going to be next,’ ” Young later recalled. “I can’t remember that. But that was the feeling that many of us had.” (From: “The Promise and the Dream,” by David Margolick. Copyright © 2018 David Margolick. A Lawrence Schiller book published by RosettaBooks. Publication date: April 3, 2018.) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »

MARCH 28, 2018
 
Floating villages spread across the surface of the Mekong River’s waterways, playing host to ethnic Vietnamese whose status in Cambodian society is perpetually adrift.
 Floating villages spread across the surface of the Mekong River’s waterways, playing host to ethnic Vietnamese whose status in Cambodian society is perpetually adrift. By BEN MAUK MARCH 28, 2018 This article was written with the support of the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting. The best handyman living among the boat people in Chong Koh was named Taing Hoarith. Most days, Hoarith woke up at 5 a.m. and bought a bowl of noodle soup from a passing sampan, the same genre of wandering bodega from which his wife, Vo Thi Vioh, sold vegetables houseboat to houseboat. When she left for the day, around 6, Hoarith rolled up their floor mat and got to work. Chong Koh is one of hundreds of floating villages, comprising tens of thousands of families, on the Tonle Sap River and the lake of the same name in Cambodia. Dangers on a floating village multiply in the rainy season. When I first visited, in late July, there was always something for Hoarith to do: repairing storm damage in a wall of thatched palm, clearing the water hyacinths that collected along the upstream porch. Sometimes the house had to be towed closer to the receding shoreline so that storms or the waves of passing ships would not capsize it. Every few months, he got his ancient air compressor working and swam beneath the house, a rubber hose between his teeth, to refill the cement jars that kept the whole thing buoyant. He was mindful of pythons. The afternoon of my arrival, Hoarith was squatting over an old butane camp stove, scraping at a rusted gas valve. Rust was the common enemy on the water. Someone had thrown the stove away, but he thought he could fix it to sell on his next trip onto the lake. His wooden long-tail, moored against the house, covered in tarpaulin and heavy with cargo, carried him to floating villages as far as 90 miles away. “I know Tonle Sap like my hand,” he said. There was Prek Tor, a remote village where every family, rich or poor, had a wooden cage for raising crocodiles. And Kbal Taol, where fishermen lived in clustered homes on the open water, risking the daily storms, competing to catch hatchlings with nets up to half a mile long. Hoarith visited them all. He was sometimes on the lake for a month at a stretch, selling pots and stoves, sleeping rough under the long-tail’s planked roof. But he always came back to Chong Koh, his home of several years, where the villagers live on cabin-size houseboats and junks arranged in tidy rows orthogonal to either shore. In the space between houses, some families raise carp and catfish in bamboo cages or keep floating gardens of potted pepper and papaya trees. Other villages are labyrinthine extensions of nearby shore towns, with broad Venetian canals and twisting alleyways, floating temples, churches, schoolrooms and oil-black ice factories. Chong Koh is relatively small, and shrinking — Cambodian authorities would like it to disappear entirely — but it lies about a mile from the heart of Kampong Chhnang, the large provincial capital, and as Hoarith worked, a steady fleet of peddlers took their boats to and from its markets. While Hoarith picked at the stove with a screwdriver, a neighbor lay in a hammock, watching him work. The neighbor, like Hoarith and everyone else in the village, was ethnically Vietnamese, and he had a Vietnamese name, Vieng Yang Nang. But most of the time he went by Samnang, which means “lucky” in Khmer, the language of Cambodia’s ethnic majority. Both men kept two names on the water — one Khmer, one Vietnamese — and switched between them freely. They felt at home in both worlds, although they weren’t always accepted in the first. In Cambodia, where the concepts of nationality and ethnicity are inextricable, members of the ethnic Vietnamese minority are known as yuon, a ubiquitous slur that is sometimes translated as “savage.” I sat on the floor listening to Samnang and Hoarith revisit a conversation from earlier in the day. That morning we had visited the school and the Vietnamese pagoda, stilted buildings near the fish market where Chong Koh once stood. Local officials evicted the village in 2015, forcing residents to move more than a mile downriver, and both buildings were now hard to access. Such evictions are frequent and unpredictable, and sometimes lead to other trouble. After Hoarith asked the authorities to help with costs related to the move, the police arrested him and accused him of inciting villagers to resist eviction. He spent three months in a squalid prison cell before Thi Vioh borrowed enough money for his release, after which the charges against him were dropped. They only wanted to send him a message, he thought. “I hadn’t committed any crime,” he said. “I had a reputation.” Hoarith and Samnang agreed that you can’t fight evictions on the water. Floating settlements are technically illegal, and the Vietnamese in particular are powerless against such orders. “The poor will become poorer,” Samnang said. Hoarith said nothing, only swept the pile of rust flakes that he amassed into a knothole in the floor. He set a can of butane into the stove’s empty chamber and pressed the pilot button. A bull’s-eye of blue flame appeared. We laughed. A few houses away, a woman sang love songs on a karaoke system powered by a car battery. The Mekong River’s lower basin is vast, encompassing parts of Myanmar and Thailand, virtually all of Laos and Cambodia and parts of southern Vietnam, where, after a 3,000-mile journey across five national borders, the mother of rivers divaricates into a complex delta network and drains into the South China Sea. Tonle Sap Lake sits roughly in the middle of this lush expanse. On a map, it appears as a crooked blue finger extending from the Mekong near Phnom Penh. But it is more often described as Cambodia’s heart, both for its rhythmic flood pulse and the sustaining role it plays in the country’s economy and food supply. Tonle Sap’s unique hydrology makes it one of the most fertile ecosystems on the planet. For half the year, the Tonle Sap River flows southeast from the lake to Phnom Penh. But during the rainy season, the swollen Mekong forces the Tonle Sap to flow in reverse, and the lake engorges to as much as six times its dry-season expanse, two miracles of plenty which over the millenniums have drawn fishermen and rice farmers alike to its doubly silted, nutrient-rich shores. Eels, frogs, shrimp and fish proliferate with tropical abandon, particularly in the fecund bottleneck where, viewed from above, the river appears to fray into dozens of delicate blue fibers before braiding itself back into open water. The border between Vietnam and Cambodia, which divides the Mekong Delta, has occasioned more battles than nearly any other in Asia. The people living on either side have been in contact for at least a thousand years, an uninterrupted exchange of goods and labor that for the last four centuries has been marked by bold Vietnamese expansion. In the 1630s, a Cambodian king married a Vietnamese princess and allowed the Vietnamese to set up customs ports along the Mekong. The settlers eventually annexed the region, cutting off Cambodia’s access to the South China Sea and stranding many Khmer people inside Vietnam, where they developed a distinct ethnic identity as Khmer Krom. This occupation of “Lower Cambodia” has never been forgiven. Cambodia’s borders were formalized when the country became a colonial protectorate in 1863. The French imported Vietnamese workers for its rubber plantations and drew on Saigon’s educated elite as administrative clerks. The number of Vietnamese in the country increased 30-fold, to more than 150,000, or 6 percent of the population. By the time Cambodia declared independence in 1953, the country was polyethnic and multinational, with enclaves of hill tribes and other distinct indigenous minorities, populations of Chinese, Lao and Vietnamese speakers and boundaries that bore only a loose resemblance to those of its precolonial realm. It fell to Cambodia’s first modern leader, Norodom Sihanouk, to unify this haphazardly circumscribed populace. Sihanouk’s grand idea was to redefine the historic term “Khmer” to include a wide range of ethnic identities. The policy rendered most of the nation’s indigenous groups, including even its Muslim Cham minority, inheritors of the ancient imperial lineage. But the ethnic Vietnamese had no place in this new national typology. Although small numbers of them had lived in the country for centuries, they were Cambodia’s hereditary enemy. After a 1970 coup, they became the targets of pogroms and massacres, adding to the chaos of that decade, which began with civil war and a brutal United States bombing campaign and ended with occupation by the Vietnamese Army. In the interim, during the five-year reign of the Khmer Rouge, millions died from execution, starvation and disease. Since 1979, the ruling Cambodian People’s Party, or C.P.P. (with the former Khmer Rouge commander Hun Sen at its head), has kept the ethnic Vietnamese in a state of limbo, informally granting and rescinding rights depending on local political climates. The C.P.P.’s opposition, the Cambodia National Rescue Party, or C.N.R.P., is more consistently xenophobic, threatening to expel the Vietnamese invaders and reclaim “Lower Cambodia.” The party’s former leader, Sam Rainsy, once proposed to “send the yuon immigrants back,” and before the 2013 national elections he claimed that “if we don’t rescue our nation, four or five years more is too late — Cambodia will be full of Vietnamese; we will become slaves of Vietnam.” Human Rights Watch has described the traditional Cambodian hatred of the ethnic Vietnamese as “almost pathological.” It is strongest in the cities, particularly in Phnom Penh, where it can be hard to differentiate between observable corruption and baseless conspiracy. There are legitimate grievances about illegal logging and fishing by Vietnamese companies, but some people also insist that the Vietnamese are to blame for the spread of AIDS or that Pol Pot was a Vietnamese spy sent to annihilate the Khmer race. The hatred is vernacular. Cambodians undergoing gastrointestinal distress say their stomachs are “made in Vietnam,” and the short, prickly tree whose nettles deliver a daylong rash, and which is known to invade a region and quickly overrun it, is the ban la yuon: the Vietnamese barb. It’s tempting to view the floating villages, where the highest concentrations of ethnic Vietnamese live, as a consequence of politically waterborne lives. In truth, the villages’ history is long and obscure, and no one knows when the first one appeared in Cambodia. The French naturalist Henri Mouhot — who “discovered” Angkor Wat in the 1850s, although it had never been lost to locals — found in Phnom Penh a floating population of 20,000, more than twice as many as lived on land. He described one village of Khmer and Vietnamese merchants just outside the capital: [T]oward the southern extremity of the city, we passed a floating town, composed of more than 500 boats, most of them of large size. They serve as an entrepôt for some merchants, and residences for others. All their money and the greater part of their merchandize is here kept, that, in case of alarm, they may be ready to take flight at a moment’s warning. There is also the collective memory, rarely transcribed, of the floating villagers themselves, who corroborate Mouhot’s intuition that theirs is a lifestyle honed over generations to mitigate against the bad harvests, marauding bandits and unfriendly rulers to which minority Vietnamese remain especially vulnerable. Some told me that they had owned land in the early years of independence and that they had lived on the water only seasonally until the land was taken away. Others said they had always lived on boats. Some identified strongly as Cambodian, while others found the question of national allegiance absurd. “We just live on the water, where it’s easy to catch fish,” a monk in Kampong Chhnang told me. “We lived everywhere.” Hoarith could count at least four generations of ancestors around Tonle Sap. Born at the mouth of the lake, he was 9 when the Khmer Rouge marched into Phnom Penh. His family was captured and sent to a labor camp in the mountains. After four months at the camp — where, he said, “they tried to kill at least 10 Vietnamese families a day” — the soldiers loaded the prisoners onto ferries to be deported “back” to Vietnam. Hoarith had never been to Vietnam. He didn’t know where Vietnam was. He asked his grandmother, but she didn’t know either. The ferry to the border took five days. Anyone who died was thrown overboard. Around 150,000 ethnic Vietnamese were expelled from the country in this way, joining the 400,000 or so who had already fled pogroms under the ultranationalist Khmer Republic. The Vietnamese were both regimes’ preferred scapegoat: “ingrate crocodiles” who wanted to swallow Cambodia whole. Those who survived the journey were traded to Vietnam for salt and rice and lived out the disastrous 1970s on farms in the countryside. Those who stayed in Cambodia — 20,000 to 30,000 people — were slaughtered, alongside 90,000 Cham and as many as 100,000 Khmer civilians who were condemned for the crime of having “Khmer bodies and Vietnamese minds.” When the Vietnamese Army marched into Phnom Penh in 1979 and installed the puppet government that would later become the C.P.P., hundreds of thousands of civilians followed. Many were refugees returning home, but others were immigrants, and their presence revived the same fears of assimilation the Khmer Rouge had stoked. Hoarith and his family resettled in the village where he was born. It was still dangerous. In 1998, during a last gasp of Khmer Rouge resistance, soldiers waded into Chhnok Trou in the middle of the night with R.P.G.s and AK-47s. The village was mixed, so before shooting, they asked: “Are you yuon or Khmer?” There is a tradition of rural pluralism in Cambodia that belies its recent history of racial violence. Most of the floating villages I saw were peaceful mélanges of Vietnamese, Khmer and Cham fishers, and many of the people I met, including Hoarith, were the product of mixed Khmer and Vietnamese marriages. But everyone seemed to agree that floating villages were traditionally a Vietnamese way of life, enlarged out of economic necessity to include other groups. Today the ethnic Vietnamese live on the water because they are not able to live elsewhere. Neither documented citizen nor, in most cases, immigrant, they are what the government has sometimes described as “nonimmigrant foreigners.” They cannot attend public schools or open bank accounts, get a driver’s license or a factory job or own land or property. Their children are not issued birth certificates, precipitating a generational cycle of de facto statelessness. “Thirty years ago, none of this mattered,” Christoph Sperfeldt, a researcher on ethnic Vietnamese citizenship in Cambodia, told me. “No Cambodians had papers. There was no state presence. But the moment the state starts registering people, suddenly it matters.” The expansion of services, including education and health care, and entitlements, including land ownership, has further marginalized those perceived as foreign. Last year, fearing a narrowing electoral gap, Hun Sen’s government disbanded the C.N.R.P. and arrested Rainsy’s successor on charges of treason. In an effort to defuse the nativism that had fueled the opposition party, the state also began the process of formalizing the status of ethnic Vietnamese as foreigners. Last October, the Ministry of the Interior identified a minimum of 70,000 mostly Vietnamese “foreigners” who possessed “irregular administrative documents.” There may be hundreds of thousands more. Officials began sweeping the country, confiscating IDs and family books and demanding that residents either volunteer to move to Vietnam — where they are similarly considered foreigners — or pay a biannual fee for an immigration card identifying the holder as Vietnamese. “We don’t remove their citizenship; they are Vietnamese,” the head of the country’s immigration department said of the purge. “We just take the Cambodian documents.” With no formal legal identity and few of the rights enjoyed by their Khmer and Cham neighbors, Vietnamese claim to pay large bribes to the fishery police, the environmental police, the maritime police and other, more ambiguous authority figures, some posing as local journalists. They are subject to evictions, mobs and capricious imprisonment. Hoarith was released in February 2016, but when I met him nearly a year and a half later, the indignity of arrest, for which he blamed his lack of citizenship, continued to occupy his mind. “I should be recognized as Khmer,” he said that afternoon, moving close. His eyes were moss green. “My family has lived in Cambodia for many generations.” He pulled back a curtain in the cramped room, revealing a woman asleep in a hammock. “My mother is 76 years old,” he said. “Even she has no documents.” Nor, now, did he. Upon his arrest, the police had confiscated his birth and marriage certificates and the national ID card he received years ago. It was agreed I would spend the night on the disused houseboat next door. Some of the weathered boards plunged into space when you stepped on them, and most of the floor was taken up by Hoarith’s supplies: rust-black sheets of tin, a roll of wire mesh, scales for weighing tubs at market. We cleared a spot for bedding, and Samnang and I chased down a boat woman selling old fabrics for a mosquito net. Dinner was a leathery fish pounded flat and fried in oil on the camp stove Hoarith had fixed that afternoon. Samnang shouted to his wife over the water that he was staying for the meal. Hoarith’s wife and mother ate together on the other houseboat; his mother deftly hopped the gap to retrieve a can of beer from the icebox. She picked up a few grains of rice I spilled from my bowl. “During the Khmer Rouge, this was our entire dinner,” she said. “This was all the food we ate in a day.” As night fell, Thi Vioh washed the dishes in a tub of river water, and Hoarith bought bags of bean pudding from the last sampan of the evening, a dessert cruiser strung with colored lights. We listened to the boats roaring up and down the dark channel. Young men in the village liked to modify boats with car engines for night races. Each motor’s throat cleared the air of the insects’ chirping. It was in one of these brief pockets of stillness that Samnang explained how his brother had died last year when a night racer collided with his fishing boat. His 4-year-old nephew had drowned that year, too, while the parents were both at work. The water has its dangers, including diarrhea (the most common cause of infant death), accidents and drowning. Most children under 5 wear life jackets when their parents can afford them, and improvised devices — the grimmest I saw was an empty motor-oil bottle tied to a length of wire looped around an infant’s neck — when they can’t. Everyone was in bed by 11 o’clock. From the shoreline came a hollow chorus of empty hulls knocking into mangrove roots. Behind a half wall near my mat, a few alternating floorboards permitted a view of the river between my legs: the facilities. Under the mosquito net, the world was awash in diaphanous pink flowers. Every few seconds, a green light affixed to a roof beam illuminated the room as a warning to nighttime fishermen, whose boats I drowsily mistook for low-flying helicopters. In the morning, Samnang came back to Hoarith’s to take me to an old cemetery in the flooded countryside. He pulled up to the house in a timber-decked dory with an outboard motor whose steering arm he commanded like a limb. Chong Koh was already bustling. Families were gathered on porches playing xiangqi and eating breakfast, feeding chickens or exercising pigs and dogs along the waterfront. Women drove their children to market while calling out to neighbors what gleanings they sold, whether gasoline, soup or Coca-Cola. Two orphan girls were already hard at work, sitting amid great piles of trei chhlart and squeezing the guts out of each gleaming fish with iron rolling pins. We drove past the fish market in Kampong Chhnang, where the dock was being hosed down after the morning rush. The village poor, most of them young boys, had moored their wooden taxi boats in the shoals of churned mud and were halfheartedly looking for fares. The water around us was dotted with the crowns of sunken trees and the rooftops of dry-season market stalls. Fishermen who had been out all night were coming home with coolers filled with riel, the silver carp that shares its name with the national currency. The rest were going our way, driving to the systems of nets and bamboo weirs they had installed on the lake according to loose territorial agreements. Samnang was friendly with everyone we passed, although he did not wave unless his hand already happened to be rising to pluck the cigarette from his lips. He had a fisherman’s shrewd economy of movement, and his toes were muscular and permanently splayed, the better to maneuver along the narrow gunwales of a boat in motion. There was an archipelago of pitted skin above his left eyebrow, where he said a drunk Khmer villager had once crushed a glass into his face. We came to an overgrown graveyard in a raised field. Unlike the Khmer, who cremate their dead, the Vietnamese bury family members in aboveground tombs. Graves thus show a record of Vietnamese residence that no law or loss of document can rescind. Life on the water leaves few ruins, but even families who have immigrated to Vietnam return to Cambodia once a year, usually in March or April, for the annual tomb-sweeping that wards off the wrath of the spirit realm. We drove from cemetery to cemetery, scraping ivy from stones to find the dates beneath, until we arrived at a sunken fen where more gravestones rose from the water like buoys. Samnang pointed to one. “My wife’s grandmother’s,” he said. There had once been a large Vietnamese village here. The stone lay between two converging strands of river. In a few days it would be underwater. Beyond the cemetery, behind a field of ban la yuon, we found a floating shack in the shadow of a ruined stilted house. A group of children waved from the window. Their father was in the abutting field, stomping through peat that came up to his shins, planting beans. He remembered the Vietnamese who used to live here, on the land as well as the water. There was even a Vietnamese temple — a wat yuon, he said — in a village not far from here. Samnang didn’t know the village, but we decided to go look for it. The farmer warned that we would find no Vietnamese living there. “After the Khmer Rouge,” he said, “they were afraid to come back.” We followed the farmer’s directions down a narrow stream that meandered for an hour past worm-infested trees from whose branches hung the teardrop nests of tropical birds. Around noon we reached the village, which was called Samraong. There was a dirt road where sickly cows communed with the bovine infinite beneath stilted houses frozen in midcollapse. Children played in the tall grass. Neang Kangrei Mountain loomed overhead, and between the village and the mountain stood an incongruously opulent temple. Its gate was red and gold, framing the mountain’s broad green slope. At the entrance stood a banner pillar, which connects heaven and earth in Buddhist cosmology. The pillar was square, in the Vietnamese style. Two stucco warriors stood on either side of the temple, 12 feet tall, pressing their swords into the earth. We found an old monk in a hammock outside his hut. He woke up as we approached. Like the bean farmer, he remembered the Vietnamese. They had used this land for centuries, he said. Behind the monk’s house were two brightly painted tombs, whose caretakers traveled from Ho Chi Minh City every March to sweep them. A group of men had come up the road as we were talking. Now they approached us. The loudest, Uy Poun, boasted to me that he helped to convert the abandoned pagoda 15 years ago, exchanging the Vietnamese gods for Khmer ones. “I built this pagoda,” he said. It had been abandoned for years by then, ever since the Khmer Rouge had moved the whole town to a camp at the foot of the mountain. Some Vietnamese were taken there, and that was the end of their time in the village. “But they weren’t killed,” he added. “They went to Vietnam.” Another man, Ek Srean, disagreed. Many were killed, he said. “I was an eyewitness. I saw the bones. I saw the bones in the pit.” “There were bones,” a third said, “but we don’t know if they were Khmer or Vietnamese.” The men fought over the fate of the Vietnamese for a while. Samnang and I listened and ate some boiled peanuts we bought in the market that morning. Conversations about the Khmer Rouge can have a dreamlike quality in Cambodia, drifting back and forth over the same gruesome territory — the crude methods of murder, the pitiful rations of rice and broth — while trading in rumors, jokes and legends. Facts are overwritten; memories change midsentence. A story is told that contradicts the one preceding it, and both are accepted as passing glimpses of a historical truth too immense to view head-on. After some cajoling, Poun admitted that Vietnamese may have been killed in the camps. “But we didn’t know,” he added. Then he seemed to change his mind. “The Vietnamese never came to the commune where we were.” We moved on to the question of whether a Vietnamese could ever become Cambodian. As usual, the word “Khmer” was used to denote both ethnicity and nationality. One man in the group put forth a tentative theory: “It depends on their desires, if they want to become Khmer or not. If they give up their Vietnamese nationality, they become Khmer.” Srean again held a different opinion. “They can hold the documents, but they cannot become Khmer. The Vietnamese are still Vietnamese.” He shook his head and was quiet for a while. “Unless the king signs.” This generated murmurs of approval. We had forgotten the king’s signature. According to Cambodian law, Prince Sihanouk’s son, Norodom Sihamoni, is the final arbiter of Cambodian citizenship. All applicants for naturalization must meet his personal standards of character. None of us knew whether this had ever actually happened. But the men at least agreed that it might, and that the Vietnamese had lived among Cambodians for generations without any trouble. “Vietnamese and Khmer married each other in this very village,” Poun said. “But not anymore.” “They were expelled,” another said with finality. “And those who decided to stay were all killed. If they had white skin like a Vietnamese, like that” — he pointed at me, not at Samnang, who was keeping his distance — “they would be killed. I saw it.” The man seemed to know what he was talking about. Most soldiers and even senior political leaders who served in the Khmer Rouge melted smoothly back into village life after its demise, sometimes rejoining the very communities where they had once worked as executioners. It is rare for anyone to admit such things. The subject was raised in a tactful way. The man who had spoken thought for a moment, then asked to revise his story. “Well, I didn’t see it exactly,” he said. “I heard about it. But someone who had light skin like you would definitely be killed.” I spent the next few weeks traveling through floating villages on Tonle Sap Lake and visiting enclaves of ethnic Vietnamese along the Cambodia-Vietnam border. In one border town, I watched a woman use an old land-mine cap as a chopping block. It had been planted in her yard during the Indochina wars and proved itself a dud. In Chhnok Trou, I watched Khmer and Vietnamese neighbors play rousing midnight games of cat te beneath flickering generator light, throwing handfuls of cash into the pot, and everywhere I was the object of extreme village hospitality that knows no ethnic or national distinction: stuffed full of giant river snails and prawn cakes, enticed with can after can of warm Angkor beer. Wherever I went, I asked local politicians and police officers what they thought of the ethnic Vietnamese living among them. The answer depended on where I happened to be. Officials spoke carefully in the cities, and I was politely bounced from the immigration police headquarters in Kampong Chhnang. But I had no trouble at the immigration police station in Kampong Luong, a sprawling conglomerate of floating villages, both Vietnamese and Khmer, on the southern shore of the lake. More than 3,000 ethnic Vietnamese lived in Kampong Luong, alongside as many Khmer, and everyone said they got along swimmingly. The police station was near the shore, a tin shed floating in a stream of wet garbage. Deputy Inspector Poa Ven was inside the shed, sweating. He was happy to see me. “We are aware of all foreign visitors,” he said, chuckling, when I handed him my business card. All the foreigners in the village were Vietnamese nationals, he explained. There was no difference between an ethnic Vietnamese and a Vietnamese citizen unless they got a letter signed by the king. “No one here has Khmer nationality.” I explained my confusion. Most of the people I’d met on floating villages could trace their lineage in Cambodia back many generations. They spoke Khmer fluently and had even been issued IDs by previous administrations. They had no ties to Vietnam. Yes, he said, even they were Vietnamese. Those were the new orders from the Ministry of the Interior. “But why are they Vietnamese?” “Because they are still immigrants! Because they came to Cambodia in 1980, they are still immigrants.” “But if they were originally from Cambodia, why are they immigrants?” “Because during the civil war, they went to Vietnam, and after the war they came back.” Nationalism is always in search of an enemy. In Cambodia, the search has a neat circular logic: The Vietnamese are enemies because they are foreign. They are foreign because they are enemies. Their existence here betrays a contradiction between the myth of a pure Khmer empire and the country’s lived history of migration and movement along the Mekong. The contradiction has been resolved at times by violence, but it is perpetuated by education. The Khmer Rouge years may be fading from living memory, but children are still taught to resent the loss of “Lower Cambodia,” and every student has heard of the rapes, gas attacks and elaborate acts of torture that Vietnamese soldiers are believed to have committed during the Indochina wars. “All of that stuff tends to weigh very heavily on Cambodian minds,” Craig Etcheson, a Khmer Rouge scholar at Harvard, told me. “And that is very easy for opportunistic politicians to exploit and inflame.” Etcheson is a founder of the Documentation Center of Cambodia, which has provided much of the evidence for the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia, or Khmer Rouge Tribunal, convened in 2006 to try a handful of senior Khmer Rouge leaders for crimes against humanity. The second phase of the trials, concerning genocide against minority groups, including the Vietnamese, concluded its final arguments last summer. A ruling is expected this year. Lyma Nguyen, an international civil-party counsel at the tribunal, told me she had hoped that one consequence of the trial would be a pathway to a stable legal identity for Vietnamese survivors of the Khmer Rouge. But she encountered insurmountable resistance to the idea. Current plans for reparations include only a watered-down education program for raising awareness about nationality laws. “Many mainstream Cambodians, including some lawyers and academics, actually don’t think the Vietnamese victims of the genocide should have a legitimate claim to having suffered genocide, because they’re Vietnamese,” she said. “They think it’s all a big conspiracy by Vietnam to swallow up Cambodia.” Most ethnic Vietnamese in the country continue to feel that they are Cambodians of Vietnamese origin. They refuse to give up hope that someday their Cambodian identity will be accepted in the country they call home. Instead, with somewhere between 400,000 and one million members, according to independent scholars, and virtually no international calls for Cambodia to uphold its own nationality laws, they are arguably one of the largest and least-supported stateless populations in the world. The ethnic Vietnamese have taken to hiding their documents from the police currently sweeping the country. It’s not the first time this kind of thing has happened to them. At the Vietnamese pagoda in Kampong Chhnang, I met a diminutive 80-year-old seamstress. Only monks and laypeople are meant to live at the pagoda, but she didn’t have any family — her children died before her eyes in a Khmer Rouge labor camp — so the monks took pity on her. I asked whether she ever received any identification papers. She shuffled to her room and came back holding a small packet wrapped in twine. “You’re lucky,” she said as she untied it. “I’ve never let anyone look at these before.” She began spreading an astonishing half-century’s worth of documents across the table. There were cards from Sihanouk’s Cambodia alongside decades’ worth of residency permits from Vietnam, to which she was twice deported. So long as she never showed them to anyone, the documents could never be invalidated or purged. They were her private legal self, a superposition of identities both Vietnamese and Cambodian. She would not give them up. “I’ll keep these documents with me until I die,” she said, “and then I’ll take them to the grave with me.” The monks on the floating pagoda in Kampong Luong were preparing for the ceremony of the drowned, arranging yellow orchids and four-o’clocks beneath a Buddha framed in flashing lights. A rented pavilion had been floated over and stocked with chairs. Young volunteers scattered riel and mangos on a picnic table, and all morning long pilgrims from Phnom Penh arrived to give money to the poor and receive blessings. It was August, and the air was torpid. Drowning is a bad death, the temple laymen explained. The souls of the drowned become water ghosts — khmoch teuk in Khmer — causing shipwrecks and pulling swimmers under by their legs. The ceremony coaxes the spirits out of the water so that they may find their way to the next life or proceed to the heavenly plane. The heat broke with a late-afternoon downpour. The children of supplicants made a game of leaping through the deluge onto an empty fish barge moored to the pagoda, then back again with fearless precision. At dusk, the ceremony began. There was an hour of amplified chanting before the head monk tossed holy water over the crowd and called for the doors of hell to open. As if on cue, the rain slowed, then stopped. The temple emptied into the ferries and sampans outside. At the front of the largest ferry, a monk rang a finger-cymbal to wake the drowned, and the boats slipped onto the open lake. There was no moon. The water was black. Webs of distant lightning soundlessly limned the clouds red. Along the sides of the ferries and the gunwales of each boat, families placed paper rafts and plastic lotus flowers into the water. Each was topped by a burning candle, such that the lake became a field of bobbing orange stars. All was still, save for the families who boated past, singing into the dark. Some of their boats nearly spilled over with children. Some of the paper boats flared up in a flash and sank. Beyond the scarp that runs along Chong Koh, a new market complex was under construction, and with it came berms of red soil and cement foundations cratered with silted ponds. Once the market was finished, the villagers in Chong Koh would be evicted again, ahead of floating communities across the province. Officials said the villages were illegal and environmentally toxic. Their residents would be squeezed onto marshy rented plots earmarked for immigrants, far from their boats and fish cages. Neither Hoarith nor Samnang wanted to move. “I can’t speak out,” Samnang said as we sat drinking coffee in his house. “They claim to give us a choice. But we have no right to buy any other land, so really it’s no choice at all.” We paddled next door, where Hoarith was too consumed by boat repair to worry about any new evictions. Last week he had chopped three feet off the back of his long-tail. Now his transmission was spread out before him like a gutted squid. As he worked, Hoarith’s thoughts often went back to his prison cell and to the spot of cold floor next to the toilet where he had slept. “I never discriminate against anyone, Vietnamese or Khmer,” he said. “But I was treated so badly.” If he were granted Khmer citizenship, he said, all would be forgiven. “My parents were born here, and I was born here,” he said. “I have that right.” There was nothing to say. Samnang found a hatchet to sharpen on the rear step over the water. Hoarith turned back to his work. A washer, slick with oil, shot from his hand. It bounced against the floor and off the side of the house before he caught it over the water, hissing in surprise. The first people to leave Chong Koh went by night as soon as the new immigration cards were announced in 2014. Since then, at least a thousand have shoved off to other provinces or sold their houses and hitched to Vietnam, part of a growing exodus all over Cambodia. In village after village, the immigration police and council leaders said the same thing: “The Vietnamese are leaving.” In a pinch, Hoarith thought he might be able to live with his wife’s relatives in Vietnam. Better was the lake. On the open lake it was more dangerous, but he would be close to his ancestors, and the authorities there weren’t as strict. The boat people had figured out how to manage them, as they managed the squalls and the waves. They knew how not to challenge the weather but survive it, was how he put it. That was the trick. You had to plan for the storm before the clouds opened up. Ben Mauk is a writer based in Berlin. He was a finalist for this year’s National Magazine Award in feature writing.Andrea Frazzetta is an Italian photographer who has worked on personal projects and assignments in more than 50 countries around the world, mainly in Africa, South America and the Mediterranean.  Advertisement
