Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:44 A.M. E.D.T.
 BEIJING —  Executives from Apple Inc and IBM Corp have called for more oversight on how personal data is used following the Facebook Inc breach that saw roughly 50 million users' data misused by consultancy Cambridge Analytica. Speaking at the three-day China Development Forum in Beijing, Apple chief Tim Cook said "well-crafted" regulation was required, while IBM Corp chief Virginia Rometty said users should have more agency over their own data. "It's clear to me that something, some large profound change is needed," said Apple chief Tim Cook on Saturday. "I'm personally not a big fan of regulation because sometimes regulation can have unexpected consequences to it, however I think this certain situation is so dire, and has become so large, that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary," said Cook, who co-chaired the event this year. Advertisement Facebook has come under intense scrutiny from users, lawmakers and investors following allegations from a whistleblower that it allowed British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica to improperly use data and build voter profiles that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016. Advertisement U.S. lawmakers on Friday officially requested that Facebook's Mark Zuckaberg explain at a congressional hearing how user's data was released to the consultancy. The breach has sparked intense debate over the responsibility of large tech firms to properly inform users of how their data is used. "If you're going to use these technologies, you have to tell people you're doing that, and they should never be surprised," IBM chief executive Rometty said on Monday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "(We have to let) people opt in and opt out, and be clear that ownership of the data does belong to the creator," said Rometty. It comes as China, where the forum was held, is also looking to bolster personal privacy regulations following a series of missteps by leading tech firms including search firm Baidu Inc and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd payment affiliate Ant Financial. "China has become increasingly more aware of this problem and have been enforcing the relevant laws more definitely and strongly," said Baidu chief Robin Li at the same event on Monday. "I think the Chinese people are more open, or less sensitive about the privacy issue. If they are able to trade (privacy) for convenience, safety or efficiency – in a lot of cases they are willing to do that," said Li. In January a consumer group from Jiangsu in east China filed a lawsuit against Baidu claiming the firm was illegally collecting personal data. (Reporting by Mathew Miller and Cate Cadell; Editing by Shri Navaratnam) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 7:47 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is promising to do a better job protecting user data following reports that a political consultant misused the personal information of millions of the company's subscribers. The fact is, European regulators are already forcing him to do so. A similar data breach in the future could make Facebook liable for fines of more than $1.6 billion under the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation, which will be enforced from May 25. The rules, approved two years ago, also make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data and apply to any company that uses the data of EU residents, no matter where it is based. The law is the latest attempt by EU regulators to rein in mostly American tech giants who they blame for avoiding tax, stifling competition and encroaching on privacy rights. European analysts say GDPR is the most important change in data privacy regulation in a generation as they try to catch up with all the technological advances since 1995, when the last comprehensive European rules were put in place. The impact is likely to be felt across the Atlantic as well. "For those of us who hold out no hope that our government will stand up for our rights, we are grateful to Europe," said Siva Vaidhyanathan, a professor at the University of Virginia who studies technology and intellectual property. "I have great hopes that GDPR will serve as a model for ensuring that citizens have dignity and autonomy in the digital economy. I wish we had the forethought to stand up for the citizen's rights in 1998 (the start of Google), but I'll settle for 2018." Advertisement The U.S. has generally taken a light touch approach to regulating internet companies, with concerns about stifling the technology-fed economic boom derailing President Barack Obama's 2012 proposal for a privacy bill of rights. But Europe has been more aggressive. Advertisement EU authorities have in recent years taken aim at Google's dominance among internet search engines and demanded back taxes from Apple and Amazon. The European Court of Justice in 2014 recognized "the right to be forgotten," allowing people to demand search engines remove information about them if they can prove there's no compelling reason for it to remain. Now data protection is in the crosshairs of the 28-nation bloc, where history has made the right to privacy a fundamental guarantee. Nazi Germany's use of personal information to target Jews hasn't been forgotten, and the new Eastern European members have even fresher memories of spying and eavesdropping by their former communist governments. In today's world, digital commerce companies collect information on every website users visit and every video they like. This data is the lifeblood of social media sites that give users free access to their services in exchange for the right to use that intelligence to attract advertisers. But the Facebook scandal shows it can also be used for other purposes. A whistleblower this month alleged that Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested information from over 50 million Facebook accounts to help Donald Trump win the 2016 presidential election. News reports have focused on the relationship between Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix, former Trump strategist Steve Bannon and billionaire computer scientist Robert Mercer, who bankrolled the operation. Cambridge Analytica says none of the Facebook data was used in the Trump campaign. Facebook is investigating. "The regulation is trying to balance the power between ourselves as individuals and organizations that use that data for a whole variety of services," said David Reed, knowledge and strategy director at DataIQ, a London-based firm that provides research on data issues. The EU's new rules expand the reach of regulations to cover any company that processes the data of people living in the bloc, regardless of where the company is based. Earlier rules were ambiguous on this point, and international companies took advantage of that to skirt some regulation, the EU says.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. While Facebook is based in Menlo Park, California, it has some 277 million daily users in Europe out of 1.4 billion globally. Advertisement The EU legislation also demands that consent forms are written in plain language anyone can understand. No more legalese across pages and pages of terms and conditions that few people read before clicking "I Agree." The regulations also require that consent must be as easy to withdraw as it is to give. To ensure compliance, there's the potential for big fines. Under GDPR, organizations face fines of up to 20 million euros ($25 million) or 4 percent of annual global turnover — whichever is greater — for the most serious violations. Facebook reported $40.65 billion in revenue last year. That means a serious violation could cost the company as much as $1.63 billion. Even though GDPR doesn't legally protect the data of people outside the EU, analysts expect many companies to apply the rules worldwide. Smaller firms are likely to decide it's too expensive to run multiple compliance systems, though bigger firms like Facebook and Google may still decide to "bracket off" European operations, Vaidhyanathan said. Sarah T. Roberts, a professor of information studies at UCLA, says the EU is formulating the rules of engagement, rather than allowing internet companies to dictate. While U.S.-based platforms were created in the image of Silicon Valley, that type of bravado and no-holds barred capitalism doesn't go down well in Europe. "Despite claims that cyberspace is not fettered to planet Earth, that is not true," she said. Facebook, for one, has taken notice, setting aside a page of its website to explain what the company is doing to comply with GDPR. "We've built tools to help people manage their data and understand their choices with respect to how we use their personal data," it says. But GDPR is not a panacea that will ensure everyone's data is protected. Some analysts suggest the next step should be to ensure that everyone owns their own data and can sell it in exchange for services. Pressure is building for increased regulation in the U.S., where members of Congress have called on Zuckerberg to testify about the Cambridge Analytica scandal. The alleged conspiracy has captured the public imagination, focusing worldwide attention on data protection, Vaidhyanathan said. Advertisement "Cambridge Analytica's story sounds like a spy novel," he said. "It has a bond villain in Alexander Nix. It has a secretive billionaire genius in Robert Mercer. It has the evil sidekick in Steve Bannon. It is working for right-wing interests and it claims to be able to control our minds," he said. "We needed a few Bond villains to make the story lively." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:10 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - The European Commission pressed Facebook on Monday over whether EU citizens' data were among those improperly harvested by a British political consultancy, after the U.S. regulator said it was investigating the firm's privacy practices. That piled yet more pressure on a firm that has lost more than $100 billion in market value in the last 10 days. Facebook shares fell more than 5 percent on Monday after the U.S. consumer protection regulator made public its investigation of how the social network allowed data of 50 million users to get into the hands of Cambridge Analytica. Facebook executives have apologized after reports emerged that Cambridge Analytica had used personal data to target U.S. voters. Advertisement "Have any data of EU citizens been affected by the recent scandal?" EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova wrote in a letter to Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg, seen by Reuters. "If this is the case, how do you intend to inform the authorities and users about it?" Advertisement Jourova said that statements by Facebook executives had not alleviated her concerns. "This is particularly disappointing given our efforts to build a relationship based on trust with you and your colleagues ... this trust is now diminished." A Facebook spokeswoman said the company remained strongly committed to protecting people's information and appreciated "the opportunity to explain what we know and will respond to the questions that the Commissioner has asked". Jourova asked Sandberg whether she was certain that a similar situation could "not be repeated today" and if she thought stricter rules were needed for platforms "like those that exist for traditional media".  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "As Mark Zuckerberg said this week, we are working hard to tackle past abuse, prevent future abuse and give people more prominent controls," the Facebook spokeswoman said. Germany's justice minister called for stricter rules for Facebook after meeting with company executives on Monday who said around 1 percent of 300,000 users of a personality quiz whose results were later fed into Cambridge Analytica's voter-targeting algorithms were in Europe. Jourova said she wanted a reply to her letter within two weeks. The Cambridge Analytica scandal emerged only a few months before a landmark EU data protection law comes into force under which companies found to be in breach could be fined up to 4 percent of global turnover. Any eventual sanctions for Facebook will fall under the current privacy regulations, and so would be much lower. Britain's data watchdog is taking the lead in investigating Facebook and Cambridge Analytica from the European side, and Jourova said she expected the social network to cooperate fully with European data protection authorities. (Reporting by Julia Fioretti; Editing by Andrew Roche and David Evans) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:23 P.M. E.D.T.
 Authorities in the U.S. and Europe are bearing down on Facebook and political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users and used it to manipulate elections. There have been numerous demands for investigations and calls for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify. Zuckerberg has said he's willing to testify before Congress to answer questions about the privacy scandal. But he suggested other executives might be better qualified to field questions from lawmakers. ___ IN THE UNITED KINGDOM: — PARLIAMENT COMMITTEE: The U.K. parliamentary media committee has summoned Zuckerberg to testify. The chairman, Damian Collins, said his panel has repeatedly asked Facebook how it uses data. He said Facebook officials "have been misleading to the committee." In a letter to Zuckerberg, Collins wrote, "It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process." — INFORMATION COMMISSIONER: Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is pursuing a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica's servers. Although Cambridge Analytica said it is committed to helping the U.K. investigation, Denham's office said the firm failed to meet a deadline to produce the information requested. Denham said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorized way. Advertisement ___ IN GERMANY: — Germany's justice minister says she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook, following a meeting with executives about the abuse of users' private data. Katarina Barley says Facebook representatives assured her Monday that such breaches wouldn't occur again and pledged to inform those users who were affected.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ___ IN THE UNITED STATES: — SENATE: The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee says he's invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing next month on data privacy. Sen. Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, says the April 10 hearing will cover how consumer data is collected, retained and distributed for commercial use. Senate Democrats have also been seeking information or Zuckerberg's testimony, while Republicans on the Commerce Committee also sent letters requesting information from Facebook and Cambridge parent SCL Group. Advertisement — HOUSE: Chris Wylie, a former Cambridge Analytica employee who became a whistleblower, has agreed to be interviewed by Democrats on the U.S. House Intelligence Committee. A date has not been set, and it's unclear if Republicans on the panel will attend. — FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: The agency confirms it will investigation following news reports last week. Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data. — INDIVIDUAL STATES: The attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse. They also asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement With Andrew Ross Sorkin MARCH 26, 2018
 Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Best day for stocks in nearly three years. • A reality check on the White House’s tariff tactics. • Tim Cook and other C.E.O.s took shots at Facebook. • Eddie Lampert finally speaks about Sears. • Washington and Beijing hold trade talks. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. Stocks on Wall Street surged on signs of easing trade tensions. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 669 points, or 2.8 percent, the S.&P. 500 surged 2.7 percent and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite climbed 3.3 percent. Advertisement It was the largest one-day point gain for the Dow since October 2008, according to The WSJ, and the biggest one-day percentage gain for S.&P. 500 and Dow since August 2015. Advertisement Worries that the Trump administration’s protectionist policies could ignite a trade war between the world’s two largest economies punished equities last week. American stocks endured their worst week in two years as the Dow lost 1,400 points, or 5.7 percent. Tensions seemed to relax over the weekend. The WSJ reported late Sunday that “China and the U.S. have quietly started negotiating to improve U.S. access to Chinese markets.” Also, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in an interview that he’s “cautiously hopeful” that China will reach a deal to avoid tariffs. Shares jumped at the open and the momentum gained through the day as last week’s hardest hit sectors led the way. • The S.&P. 500 technology sector rose 4 percent. Microsoft and Apple gained 7.6 percent and 4.8 percent, respectively. • The KBW Bank Index climbed 3 percent on Monday, after tumbling 8 percent last week. Bank of America finished up 4.4 percent, while Morgan Stanley gained 4.3 percent. The two stocks had fallen nearly 5 percent on Friday. • Even Facebook, which was down 6.5 percent earlier in the day from the continued fallout from the Cambridge Analytica scandal, was able to eek out gains. The stock finished up 0.4 percent higher. • Gun stocks were the exception. Shares of publicly traded firearms companies fell in the wake Remington Outdoor bankruptcy filing and this weekend rallies for gun control. American Outdoor Brands fell 2.3 percent, Vista Outdoor dropped 3.8 percent and Sturm, Ruger & Co. slipped less than 1 percent. Investors last week looked at President Trump’s tariffs against Chinese products and seemed to conclude that he was taking the U.S. into a trade war with China. The stock market plunged 6 percent. Advertisement Perhaps eager to stop the rout, the White House on Monday had a less confrontational message: Mr. Trump is applying one of his negotiating tactics. According to this view, the tariff proposal was a jarring move partly aimed at getting China to see that the U.S. was serious about wanting to make trade with China fairer. From a CNBC interview with Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers: “From the beginning, all the way back to last summer when I arrived at the White House, the president has been clear that he wants to set a marker down with some big asks at the beginning, he doesn’t want to dribble them out, and then he wants his negotiators to try to fix the trade problems. ...Hopefully, it all works out with negotiation.” Mr. Hassett’s comments were in response to a WSJ article reporting that China and the U.S. were quietly engaged in trade negotiations. Investors seemed somewhat relieved: The stock market was up 1.5 percent on Monday. Of course, if the stakes are small enough, a deal may get done in the coming months that allows both sides to claim victory. But it seems unlikely that China would quickly agree to a far-reaching overhaul of the rules that govern foreign investment in the country, a major area of dispute. Our colleagues Raymond Zhong and Paul Mozur showed the depth of the divide there. Mr. Trump could up the ante if China shows no real signs that it will open up considerably. That could roil the markets again. The White House may want to signal that it can take market turmoil in stride. Mr. Hassett on Monday seemed to say that the White House expects market sell-offs as it pursues its trade agenda. “If you start from a world where a bunch your intellectual technology is being stolen, then of course it’s going to increase risk premiums in the short run when you try to do something about it, but in the end it should be a positive for us if we can get them to just stop them disregarding the rules of international order.” (Rising risk premiums means investors require a better return on their stocks and bonds to cover higher risks. This usually involves a decline in price to make their returns look better to prospective buyers.) Still, the more conciliatory tone from the White House after the sell-off suggests there is not a strong desire for a full-on trade war. — Peter Eavis The stock is down 6.5 percent Monday morning as the Federal Trade Commission confirmed that it has opened an investigation into Facebook’s privacy practice. Advertisement Also on Monday, Senator Chuck Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, invited Mr. Zuckerberg to testify about privacy standards next month and also extended the invitation to Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, and Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey. Facebook’s shares are down nearly 22 percent since its high in early February and off more than 18 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke more than a week ago. To put Facebook’s recent tumble in perspective: The stock is set for its worst monthly performance since August 2012. Over the past 10 days, Facebook has lost $100 billion in market value. Despite the fall, Wall Street has not soured on Facebook. Forty-four analysts have buy ratings on the stock, compare to just two who have sell ratings, according to Bloomberg. The Apple C.E.O. said at the China Development Forum in Beijing that the government should tighten privacy regulations, after last week’s revelations about Facebook and Cambridge Analytica: “I think that this certain situation is so dire and has become so large that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary. The ability of anyone to know what you’ve been browsing about for years, who your contacts are, who their contacts are, things you like and dislike and every intimate detail of your life — from my own point of view, it shouldn’t exist.” Apple often uses privacy as a selling point, but Mr. Cook wasn’t the only critic. Elon Musk deleted SpaceX and Tesla’s Facebook pages, saying that the Tesla one “looks lame anyway.” Sir Martin Sorrell of the ad giant WPP said Facebook needed to “step up to the mark” and be responsible for content on its platform. And some companies have stopped buying ads on Facebook, highlighting how advertisers want more transparency about performance. (Users also complained that the Android app tracked calls and text messages.) Meanwhile, Facebook took out full-page ads in several British and American newspapers — including the NYT — for an apology signed by Mark Zuckerberg. Elsewhere in Cambridge Analytica news: A volunteer for the campaign for Britain to leave the E.U. said that a Canadian data company linked to Cambridge Analytica had played a role in the organization’s work. Groups campaigning against Brexit have written to Prime Minister Theresa May demanding an investigation into what members of her cabinet and her staff knew. Andrew’s take Mr. Cook’s points on privacy are absolutely right. But he has a tough needle to thread, given that Apple does business in China and acknowledges that it is “subject to each country’s laws” that it does business in. Apple encrypts all user data and says there is no back door — and I believe that — most security and political experts have speculated that Beijing might ultimately be able to gain access iCloud data for Chinese customers: It adopted a law requiring all cloud services to be operated by Chinese companies. Apple says that it lobbied against the new law, but ultimately complied. Advertisement As for Facebook’s ad, take note of this: “We expect there are others. And when we find them, we will ban them and tell everyone affected.” Settle in for more episodes before this soap opera ends. Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Elsewhere in privacy: Growing calls for privacy could seriously dent the business model of ad-supported internet. Federal law enforcement officials are renewing a push for a legal mandate that would allow access to encrypted data in criminal investigations. The activist investor’s fund, Third Point, has built a position in United Technologies, according to an antitrust filing. He is the second activist investor to reveal a stake in the United Technologies during the past 30 days. On Feb. 28, Bill Ackman told CNBC that his Pershing Square had a position in the defense contractor. Context  At a conference late last month, Greg Hayes, the chief executive of United Technologies, said the company was thinking of splitting up: “Is [United Technologies] a more valuable property together or is UTC better off in three separate businesses? That’s the question for the board. That’s the question we continue to study.” Shares of United Technologies are up nearly 3 percent on Monday. Gebr Knauf disclosed in a filing on Monday that it had offered to buy USG for $42 a share, or about $6 billion. That marked a 25 percent premium to USG closing price on Friday. In rejecting the offer, USG said the proposal substantially undervalued the building products maker. Knauf owns 10.5 percent of USG, making Knauf the second-largest shareholder in USG behind Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway with a 31 percent stake. Berkshire had proposed an option for Knauf to buy Berkshire’s stake in USG, according to the filing. The option would be exercisable only if Knauf bought all of USG’s shares outstanding for at least $42. Berkshire proposed an option purchase price of $2 per share. From Reuters: The option provides a sweetener for Buffett to shed a profitable investment that originated in late 2008, at the height of the housing crisis, when Berkshire and Canada’s Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd bought $400 million of USG’s debt. The $2 per share cost of the option would provide Berkshire about $86.8 million upfront, based on its 43.39 million share USG stake. Berkshire would keep that money even if Knauf proved unable to buy USG. Shares of USG are up 19 percent Monday. With Sears Holdings increasingly desperate in its efforts to stay afloat, the company’s C.E.O. gave his first in-depth interview in roughly 15 years to William D. Cohan of Vanity Fair. Mr. Lampert spoke about his past successes and his current travails as the head of the troubled retailer. (Mr. Cohan also spoke with Renaldo Rose, the man who spearheaded the kidnapping of Mr. Lampert in 2003.) Advertisement The money quote, from Mr. Lampert: “Put it this way, if I consider all the other alternatives, they’re not great for a lot of people and I just want to be responsible. If I didn’t believe that this company could be transformed still — the window is definitely shrinking — but if I didn’t believe that, I would try to take a different path. But I don’t know what that path exactly would be. It’s not a question of giving up or not giving up.” A bonus quote on Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Lampert’s college roommate and a director of Sears before becoming Treasury secretary, from Mark Cohen, the former C.E.O. of Sears Canada: “[With] all of Trump’s focus on jobs, job preservation, job creation, somebody ought to ask his secretary of the Treasury what his involvement has been for 11 years in the destruction of well over 100,000 jobs at Sears.” After a Friday that saw the markets sink amid fears of a trade war, the U.S. and China are holding high-level talks to defuse tensions, the WSJ reports. Leading them: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Liu He, Beijing’s economic czar. Among Washington’s requests, in a letter to Mr. Liu, were lower Chinese tariffs on American cars and more freedom for Wall Street firms to expand in China. Mr. Mnuchin told “Fox News Sunday” that he believed the recent rate increase by the Federal Reserve was to blame for recent market declines, not tariffs. He added, “We’re not afraid of a trade war, but that’s not our objective.” News of the talks have lifted markets in Asia and Europe, while S.&P. 500 futures jumped this morning. It will also undoubtedly ease the fears of C.E.O.s, economists and foreign leaders and allies who have openly fretted about the prospect of a trade war. A sample quote, from Larry Fink of BlackRock: “The world does not need a public fight in which we reduce future opportunities.” • Stormy Daniels told “60 Minutes” that she signed a nondisclosure agreement, for which she received $130,000, about an alleged affair with Donald J. Trump because she was worried about her safety and that of her daughter. “Leave Trump alone,” a stranger told her in 2011. Read the NYT profile of her from this weekend. •  President Trump decided not to add Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing to his legal defense team in the special counsel’s investigation. That team now largely consists of one lawyer, Jay Sekulow. • The spotlight has fallen on Elliott Broidy, a top Republican fund-raiser who promised White House access to his investment and defense contractor clients. (NYT) • How Jared Kushner is quietly trying to mend U.S.-Mexico relations. (NYT) • What to expect from John Bolton, the new national security adviser. (Axios) On a weekend in which millions turned out for student-led rallies for gun control, Remington Outdoor officially sought Chapter 11 protection in Delaware. The biggest problems for the firearms maker: too much debt after being sold to Cerberus Capital Management, and a drop in gun sales after Hillary Clinton lost the presidential election in 2016. Advertisement On guns and politics: Brad Karp and Christopher Boehning of the law firm Paul Weiss argue that firearms manufacturers should lose legal immunity to lawsuits tied to gun deaths. Saturday’s marches could make gun control a potent issue in the midterm elections. And the U.S.’s broad support for gun control has many nuances. The media mogul spoke to Maureen Dowd of the NYT about: President Trump (not a fan); the current state of the media business (bullish on Netflix, bearish on Hollywood); and cloning his late dog, Shannon (he did it). Here’s what he had to say about workplace misconduct: “We recently had a formal complaint made by a woman who said that she was at a convention with her colleagues and she was asked to have a drink with her boss. Period. That was the complaint. And we said, ‘Here’s the thing. Anybody can ask you anything, other than let’s presume something illegal, and you have the right to say “Yes” or “No.” If it’s “Yes,” go in good health and if it’s “No,” then it’s full stop.’ “But the end result of that is a guy, let’s presume he is heterosexual, and his boss, heterosexual, and guy asks guy for a drink and they go have a drink and they talk about career opportunities. And the boss says, ‘Oh, this is a smart guy. I’m promoting him.’ A woman now cannot be in that position. So all these things are a-changin’.” But he also added, “Other than psychopaths, I think all of this bad behavior is finished.” The ride-hailing giant finally sealed a deal to sell its Southeast Asian business to the (SoftBank-backed) Grab in exchange for a stake in its competitor. Like the sale of its Chinese and Russian businesses, this gets Uber out of a costly fight as it readies for an I.P.O. next year. But does this mean that Uber is also set to leave other competitive markets, like India? On self-driving cars: Even before a pedestrian was killed in Tempe, Ariz., Uber was struggling with its autonomous vehicle efforts, needing human intervention nearly every 13 miles on average in Arizona tests. Those technical issues made being an operator of Uber’s cars very stressful. Elsewhere in tech: Amazon is collecting local taxes, but several cities aren’t seeing a dime. And why haven’t smart kitchen devices taken off? • SoftBank’s board is investigating who was behind a shareholder campaign that sought the ouster of two of its executives, unnamed sources said. It is also considering a $1 billion investment in a Chinese truck-hailing company, according to unnamed sources. • After naming Yi Gang the governor of China’s central bank, Beijing has put another reformer, Guo Shuqing, above him as the bank’s Communist Party secretary. (NYT) • John C. Williams, the president of the San Francisco Fed, is a top candidate to succeed Bill Dudley at the New York Fed. (NYT) Advertisement • Duke Tran, who was once a Khmer Rouge slave, has been fighting Wells Fargo for more than four years, saying he was fired for blowing the whistle on deceptive practices. (NYT) • G.E. sold off much of its lending unit, but investors are worried about what’s left of G.E. Capital. (WSJ) • Sergio Ermotti said UBS would be looking at small acquisitions to help it grow. (Bloomberg) • Britain’s JD Sports Fashion has agreed to buy Finish Line, the U.S. sportswear retailer that operates concessions in Macy’s, for $558 million. (Bloomberg) • Some of the most aggressive and successful labor actions in recent years have erupted when professionals felt their judgment, expertise and autonomy were under assault. (NYT) • When the elderly call for help in the U.S., it’s often a “chain” immigrant who answers. (NYT) • Apple is going to Hollywood, but will it find a happy ending? (NYT) • Ad agencies have long used classical music, but these days it’s more than a jokey device or a signifier of sophistication. (NYT) • New Japan Pro-Wrestling, backed by Mark Cuban, is out to loosen W.W.E.’s grip on the industry. (NYT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:40 P.M. E.D.T.
 AHMEDABAD, India —  Allegations that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's official smartphone app is shipping Indians' personal data to servers abroad have morphed into a political scandal in a country where privacy rules are weak and the data mining runs rampant. Indian opposition leader Rahul Gandhi taunted the prime minister after a pseudonymous researcher found that Modi's app was pumping private information such as citizens' email addresses to servers controlled by a U.S. firm. "Hi! My name is Narendra Modi. I am India's Prime Minister," Gandhi wrote in a sarcastic Twitter post published Sunday. "When you sign up for my official App, I give all your data to my friends in American companies." Modi's party has defended the app, saying the harvested data is being used "only for analytics." But the app's makers quietly rewrote their privacy policy after the news broke late last week. Initially , it read: "Your personal information and contact details shall remain confidential." Now it reads: "Certain information maybe processed by third party services." Advertisement Intrusive data collection is common in the Wild West world of smartphone apps and social media. But the recent scandal over Cambridge Analytica's allegedly unauthorized harvesting of Facebook data and a series of leaks linked to India's biometric database has refocused the public's attention on digital privacy. Advertisement Digital law expert and author Pavan Duggal said Indian regulations offered particularly weak safeguards.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "India does not have any legal position on data mining," he said. "India does not have a dedicated law on data protection. India does not also have a law on privacy, nor do we have a dedicated law on cybersecurity." The researcher whose work touched off the scandal did not immediately return messages. Operating under the handle "Elliot Alderson," a name borrowed from the hacker drama "Mr. Robot," he has had a busy few weeks needling Indian authorities about a series of data breaches. The app appears to be the first to have turned into a national scandal. Indian journalist Pratik Sinha, who double-checked the researcher's work, explained all the attention by pointing to the fact that Modi's name was attached to the app. "We are talking about the prime minister of the country," he said. ___ Satter reported from London. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:41 A.M. E.D.T.
 MUMBAI —  A social media furor over data privacy on Indian political party apps escalated on Monday with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and opposition Indian National Congress trading barbs. The row comes at a time of heightened sensitivity worldwide after the alleged misuse of personal data amid the unfolding Facebook-Cambridge Analytica controversy Allegations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's official mobile app was sending personal user data to a third party without consent caused an online uproar over the weekend. Modi's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party denied the allegations and said the data was being used only for analytics to offer the "most contextual content". Advertisement The BJP in turn took aim at the Congress on Monday after the same security researcher highlighted that the opposition party's app was transmitting personal data of those that signed up in an unsecured format. Advertisement The Congress later appeared to have deleted the link to its app entirely on Monday, prompting Amit Malviya, the head of the BJP's IT cell, to tweet, "What is the Congress party trying to hide?" The Congress responded on Twitter saying it was forced to remove the app as an incorrect link was being circulated and people were being misled.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The security researcher, who has previously highlighted some vulnerabilities in India's national identity card project and who tweets under the pseudonym Elliot Alderson, caused a flurry on Saturday with a series of tweets saying the Modi app was sending personal user data to a third-party domain that was traced to an American company. "Hi! My name is Narendra Modi. I am India's Prime Minister. When you sign up for my official App, I give all your data to my friends in American companies," wrote opposition Congress Party Chief Rahul Gandhi in a Twitter message on Sunday. The BJP responded on Twitter, saying Gandhi was trying to divert attention. The BJP has accused the Congress of engaging Cambridge Analytica in India, a charge the opposition party has denied. Alderson, who initially pointed out that the Modi app was sharing data with a third party without the consent of users, earlier on Sunday posted a new tweet saying the app had "quietly" updated its privacy policy after his previous tweets. Reuters could not independently verify Alderson's claims. Modi has not commented on the issue. (Reporting by Devidutta Tripathy and Euan Rocha; Editing by Nick Macfie) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 10:15 A.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys said on Monday it is suspending all advertising on Facebook Inc following concerns of data privacy, joining internet company Mozilla Corp in pulling ads from the social networking site. The decision follows allegations that a political consultancy gained inappropriate access to data on 50 million Facebook users to build profiles on American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016. "We are concerned about the issues surrounding Facebook and have decided to suspend all media on the platform until the facts are out and corrective actions have been taken," Pep Boys chief marketing officer Danielle Porto Mohn said in a statement. (This version of the story was corrected to change the company description to auto parts retailer from tire maker) (Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:43 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Cyber attackers targeted British sport's anti-doping agency over the weekend without gaining access to any data, it said in a statement on Monday. London-based UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) holds the test details and medical records of thousands of athletes, ranging from soccer players to high-profile Olympic medalists. "Over the weekend UK Anti-Doping was made aware of a cyber attack affecting our systems. We can confirm that no data has been lost or compromised," the statement said. "We took the necessary steps to investigate and resolve the situation. No core activity, including our testing program, has been impacted. Advertisement "We are satisfied that we have appropriate levels of cyber security in place, and we continually review our systems and measures to ensure they are of a very high standard," the agency added. Advertisement UKAD did not say where the attack was suspected to have originated or who might be behind it. The Independent newspaper reported that staff had been sent home on Monday, with all of UKAD's electronic systems taken offline.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cyber security researchers warned in January of indications that Russia-based hackers might be planning attacks against anti-doping and Olympic organizations following Russia's exclusion from last month's Pyeongchang Games. Those Games in South Korea were subjected to a cyber attack during the opening ceremony but Russia dismissed allegations Russian hackers were involved. A Russian hacking group known as Fancy Bear was blamed for an Olympics-related hack in 2016, when the World Anti-Doping Agency said the group was responsible for stealing and publishing confidential medical information about athletes. Western governments and security experts have linked Fancy Bear, also known as APT28, to a Russian intelligence agency and have blamed it for operations including an attack on the Democratic National Committee ahead of the 2016 U.S. elections. Moscow has repeatedly denied its involvement in these intrusions. (Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Pritha Sarkar) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:11 A.M. E.D.T.
 SAN FRANCISCO/LONDON —  Opinion polls published on Sunday in the United States and Germany cast doubt over the level of trust people have in Facebook over privacy, as the firm ran advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers apologizing to users. Fewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey U.S. privacy laws, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday, while a survey published by Bild am Sonntag, Germany’s largest-selling Sunday paper, found 60 percent of Germans fear that Facebook and other social networks are having a negative impact on democracy. Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg apologized for "a breach of trust" in advertisements placed in papers including the Observer in Britain and the New York Times, Washington Post and Wall Street Journal. "We have a responsibility to protect your information. If we can't, we don't deserve it," said the advertisement, which appeared in plain text on a white background with a tiny Facebook logo. Advertisement The world's largest social media network is coming under growing government scrutiny in Europe and the United States, and is trying to repair its reputation among users, advertisers, lawmakers and investors. Advertisement This follows allegations that the British consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to users' information to build profiles of American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016. U.S. Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in an interview on NBC’s Meet the Press" on Sunday that Facebook had not been "fully forthcoming" over how Cambridge Analytica had used Facebook data. Warner repeated calls for Zuckerberg to testify in person before U.S. lawmakers, saying Facebook and other internet companies had been reluctant to confront “the dark underbelly of social media” and how it can be manipulated. "BREACH OF TRUST" Zuckerberg acknowledged that an app built by a university researcher had "leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014". "This was a breach of trust, and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time," Zuckerberg said, reiterating an apology first made last week in U.S. television interviews.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Facebook shares tumbled 14 percent last week, while the hashtag #DeleteFacebook gained traction online. The Reuters/Ipsos online poll found that 41 percent of Americans trust Facebook to obey laws that protect their personal information, compared with 66 percent who said they trust Amazon.com Inc, 62 percent who trust Alphabet Inc's Google, 60 percent for Microsoft Corp. The poll was conducted from Wednesday through Friday and had 2,237 responses. (https://reut.rs/2G9hvrv) Advertisement The German poll published by Bild was conducted by Kantar EMNID, a unit of global advertising holding company WPP, using representative polling methods, the firm said. Overall, only 33 percent found social media had a positive effect on democracy, against 60 percent who believed the opposite. It is too early to say if distrust will cause people to step back from Facebook, eMarketer analyst Debra Williamson said in an interview. Customers of banks or other industries do not necessarily quit after losing faith, she said. "It's psychologically harder to let go of a platform like Facebook that's become pretty well ingrained into people's lives," she said. Data supplied to Reuters by the Israeli firm SimilarWeb, which measures global online audiences, indicated that Facebook usage in major markets and worldwide remained steady over the past week. "Desktop, mobile and app usage has remained steady and well within the expected range," said Gitit Greenberg, SimilarWeb's director of market insights. "It is important to separate frustration from actual tangible impacts to Facebook usage." (Additional reporting by William James in London, Dustin Volz in Washington D.C. and Chris Kahn in New Editing by Kevin Liffey) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By TIFFANY HSU and CECILIA KANGMARCH 26, 2018
 A parade of regulators, politicians and law enforcement officials demanded to know more about Facebook’s privacy practices on Monday, as the fallout from the company’s relationship with a political data firm continued to spread. Early in the day, the Federal Trade Commission confirmed reports that it was investigating how Facebook handles information about its users. Soon after, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, invited Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to testify about privacy standards next month. He also extended invitations to Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, and Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey. And a group of 37 attorneys general sent Mr. Zuckerberg a letter asking for details about Facebook’s privacy safeguards. Advertisement But one group of people interested in Facebook — investors — had a muted reaction to the growing regulatory threat. Shares of Facebook fell sharply after the F.T.C. confirmed its investigation but ended the day up 0.4 percent as overall trading on Wall Street recovered from a big drop last week. Advertisement The federal investigation and threats followed recent news that the data collection firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked on the 2016 Trump presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of more than 50 million Facebook users. The F.T.C. said it planned to determine whether the social media giant had violated a consent decree it signed in 2011 to protect users’ privacy. The decree required Facebook to notify and receive explicit permission from users before sharing their personal information beyond the limits dictated by their privacy settings. Each violation of the agreement, which the agency reached with Facebook as part of a settlement over third-party apps, carries a penalty of up to $40,000 a day. The agency’s acknowledgment of its investigation helped push Facebook’s stock down as much as 6.5 percent on Monday morning before it recovered. Facebook said last week that it was anticipating an inquiry by the agency. The F.T.C. said in a statement on Monday that it “takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook.” Lawmakers have repeatedly called for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear in hearings on Capitol Hill. Last week, the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate commerce committees formally invited him to testify. “I’m sure this is much bigger than Cambridge Analytica, and I’m sure there are other Cambridge Analyticas out there,” Senator John Kennedy, Republican from Louisiana, said in an interview. “Facebook isn’t just a company. It is so powerful it is like a country.” Advertisement Some lawmakers, such as Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat from Connecticut, asked the F.T.C. to look into whether Facebook should pay damages to users. “The sphere of scrutiny must be broader than just the consent decree,” he said in a statement. “There is no excuse for delay.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cambridge Analytica is facing intense criticism, too. On Monday, Common Cause, a government watchdog group in Washington, filed complaints seeking federal investigations into allegations that the company violated federal election law. In an article that detailed how Cambridge Analytica obtained information about millions of Facebook users, The New York Times reported this month that employees of the data research firm with European or Canadian citizenship had worked extensively for its American clients during the 2014 and 2016 elections, despite a warning from its own election lawyer. The employees worked on polling, message development, and the designing of target audiences for digital ads and fund-raising appeals. The company said the work was permissible because none of the foreign employees had “strategic” or “operational” roles. But former employees contradicted that account, suggesting that the work violated laws in the United States that strictly limit what non-Americans can do for American political campaigns. Common Cause filed one complaint with the Justice Department, which has authority to investigate “knowing and willful” violations of campaign law. The group also filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, which has day-to-day jurisdiction over enforcing election rules. “It defies belief that even after their own attorney warned them that they would be violating the prohibition on performing certain election-related activities in U.S. elections that they did so anyway,” said Paul S. Ryan, Common Cause’s vice president for policy and litigation. In the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, lawyers appealed two lawsuits that challenged the social media company’s privacy and user data policies. One lawsuit claims that Facebook violates the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (Wiretap Act) and state law equivalents because of the way it monitors its users on and off the platform. Advertisement The second suit claims that Facebook has been capturing and selling the details of users’ browsing of third-party health sites. Any site with a Facebook “like” button, including those of medical institutions such as the American Cancer Society and the American Society of Clinical Oncology, could be used to track users as they browsed outside Facebook, according to the lawsuit. Facebook also has been targeted by several shareholder lawsuits since the reports detailing Cambridge Analytica’s use of Facebook user information. In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which data from over 50 million Facebook profiles was secretly scraped and mined for voter insights, many Facebook users have decided to delete their accounts — but untangling yourself from a site like Facebook is not as easy as pressing “delete.” Many users have threatened to deactivate or delete their accounts to protest Facebook’s stewardship of their personal data. The #deletefacebook campaign, as it has been called, has even received support from a creator of WhatsApp, one of Facebook’s most popular services, who sold his company to the social media giant for $19 billion in 2014. Elon Musk, the chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla, removed the Facebook pages of both companies on Friday. While the Cambridge Analytica revelations have renewed regulatory interest in Facebook in the United States, pressure on the company in other countries has been building for years. The company has been the subject of several privacy investigations and charges by European regulators. And Europe has approved a new privacy law, which takes effect in May, that will give users of Facebook, Google and other internet services more control over how their data is collected and what Silicon Valley companies know about them. Follow Tiffany Hsu and Cecilia Kang on Twitter: @tiffkhsu, @ceciliakang Nicholas Confessore and Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Regulators Hammer Facebook.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:29 A.M. E.D.T.
 MILAN —  Italy and Torino forward Andrea Belotti will only move to a bigger club if he can be sure he plays regularly. "They tell me I should go and play in a big club which plays in the big cup competitions, but I will decide what is best for me," Belotti told state broadcaster Rai. "I'm not interested in moving to a big club if I don't play or get stuck on the bench. If I move, it's to be a regular in the first team." The 24-year-old attracted attention from around Europe after he scored 26 goals for Torino in Serie A last season and also became a regular for Italy. Advertisement However, Torino president Urbano Cairo insisted he did not want to sell the player and inserted a 100 million euro (87.26 million pounds) buyout clause into Belotti's contract, which runs until 2021.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. This season has been less successful for Belotti, who has suffered two injuries, scored a modest six league goals and was part of an Italy team which failed to qualify for the World Cup. Advertisement "I don't want to see pictures of the game at San Siro again," he said, referring to the 0-0 playoff draw against Sweden in November which cost Italy a place in Russia. "Personally, after the two injuries, I'm well, both physically and mentally. Fortunately, there are lots of games coming up so I can bounce back."    Italy play England in a friendly at Wembley on Tuesday. (Writing by Brian Homewood in Bern; Editing by John O'Brien) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Billions  By                     
SEAN T. COLLINS

MARCH 25, 2018
 “There’s a new sheriff in town,” drawls Attorney General Waylon Jeffcoat to an assemblage of United States attorneys now under his employ, “and you are my deputies. Gonna be one hell of a turkey shoot!” Well, yes and no. After watching the Season 3 premiere of “Billions,” Showtime’s amusement-park ride of a financial drama, it is clear that the show’s creators and characters are indeed coming out guns blazing. But the new sheriff, known as Jock, hasn’t changed the series’s old winning ways. A boots-on-the-desk Texan played by the dulcet-toned character actor Clancy Brown, Jock Jeffcoat announces he’s pulling the Justice Department away from Wall Street’s white-collar crimes. Elsewhere, the revelation that the unctuous hedge-fund creep Todd Krakow (Danny Strong), previously the show’s comic-relief antagonist, has been named Treasury Secretary is perhaps the best gag of the episode, in that funny-because-it’s-true sort of way. The premiere is the most direct reference to the advent of the Trump era we’ve seen so far, if not explicitly so. And yet “Billions” is still the story of the hedge-fund billionaire Bobby Axelrod (Damian Lewis) and Chuck Rhoades (Paul Giamatti), the crafty, crusading prosecutor out to take him down. The two remain uncomfortably connected by Wendy Rhoades (Maggie Siff), Axe’s on-staff therapist and performance coach who’s also Chuck’s wife and dominatrix. Each man is the other’s Ahab, with Wendy playing Ishmael to them all, complemented by one of the strongest supporting casts on television. Trump may have changed the playing field, but the players and the game remain the rollicking, entertaining same. At the close of Season 2, Chuck busted Bobby on an I.P.O. sabotage scheme that he had more or less abetted himself, knowing that his nemesis would walk right into the trap. Now Chuck and Wendy — previously estranged, in large part, because of his obsession with her boss — have reconciled. On the other hand, Axe and his wife, Lara (Malin Akerman), have split over Axe’s dishonesty about continuing to work with Wendy. It didn’t help that he also put his family’s fortune and stability at risk by getting himself arrested. Advertisement Professionally, Rhoades has developed an alliance of convenience with the ambitious young attorney Oliver Dake (Christopher Denham), who was investigating Chuck for ethics violations until Chuck promised him the high-profile Axelrod collar in exchange for calling it off. Bobby has been sidelined by an asset freeze orchestrated by Dake and has to surrender his trading license in order to unfreeze it, so he’s grooming his gender-nonbinary genius, Taylor Mason (Asia Kate Dillon), to run Axe Capital until he is back in action. Taylor is abetted by Bobby’s devilish and decadent right-hand man, Mike Wagner (David Costabile), better known as Wags, while Dake contends with the suspicions of Chuck’s protégé Bryan Connerty (Toby Leonard Moore). Advertisement Meanwhile, Rhoades still harbors ambitions to become governor. Axelrod wants to keep his money, his freedom and his grudge match against Chuck going. So yeah, there’s a lot going on. But the brilliance of “Billions” lies in acting like there isn’t, moving at a breakneck speed through every convoluted concept and complex plotline. Dialogue whips past in huge, devastating chunks, dense with pop-culture quotes, literary allusions, legal and financial jargon, elaborate and often profane metaphors (Jeffcoat’s story about the role of “teasers” on his family’s horse ranch is particularly juicy) and a ton of brutal bon mots. The quietly killer kiss-off Chuck receives from Ira (Ben Shenkman), a friend he betrayed in his quest to destroy Axelrod, was my personal favorite: “I’ll never talk to you again once this conversation is over. Which it is.” The pacing and writing reflect the culture of its characters. You can either keep up, or give up. It’s not all wordplay, though. These are indulgent people, and “Billions” has long played close attention to their physical rituals alongside their mental ones. Chuck and Wendy’s bondage session is handled with both explicit heat and total seriousness: the show wants you to appreciate what this practice means to the couple involved. In another scene, Wags takes Taylor to a Russian bathhouse for a private heart-to-heart, where he then defends Taylor’s toplessness by fondling his own chest when another bather gets in their face about it. (“I could have done that myself,” Taylor tells Wags in the character’s clipped cadence. “I know,” Wags says, grinning. “I wanted the release.”) The setup for a lavish once-a-year dinner get-together for the biggest hedge-fund managers in Manhattan is depicted in loving detail — and attended by the real-life trading titans Michael Adam Karsch, Marc Lasry and Michael Platt, playing themselves. When Taylor drops an attention-getting lead on them before so much as an appetizer is served, it no doubt becomes obvious to everyone in the room that Taylor is the next big thing.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But we already knew. In case there was any doubt, in fact, the song “The Next Big Thing” by the New York proto-punk band the Dictators accompanies Taylor’s arrival at Axe Cap’s new Manhattan headquarters for Taylor’s first meeting with the company’s analysts. It’s just one of several astute music cues — I counted Garrett T. Capps’s “Born in San Antone,” Mink DeVille’s “Spanish Stroll,” and Lucy Dacus’s “Troublemaker Doppelgänger,” and may well have missed a few — that come with few previous associations, unlike the megahits dropped on viewers by many other series. The lack of pre-existing context makes you feel as if these characters were creating their own rock-star personas out of whole cloth. But there’s a reason that “Billions” is the show about Wall Street whizzes that even socialists can love. The most striking — and damning — aspect of all the power plays is the ideology behind them: There isn’t one. Neither Axelrod nor Chuck shows the slightest sign of believing in some higher calling or deeper purpose — not a believable one at this point, anyway (Chuck can certainly muster an impassioned speech about truth and justice when it’s convenient). You might expect this from the hedge fundamentalists: Their cause is capitalism, which they see not as a political arrangement but as a force of nature they can master like wizards. But when Rhoades brings up the concept of serving justice, it’s a joke — deliberate, winking misdirection from the real reason he handed the Axelrod case to his own one-time nemesis, Oliver Dake. When Chuck and his colleague Kate Sacher (Condola Rashad) conspire to revive the financial cases that the business-friendly new administration has warned them not to pursue, they seem to do so more from pique and pride than from a zeal to right wrongs. The political scene “Billions” portrays is equally amoral. The New York kingmaker Black Jack Foley (portrayed by the glamorously graying actor David Strathairn) has no agenda other than to secretly be in charge of whoever is publicly in charge of the state. This mentality tracks upward to the federal level as well. “You’ve got some wolf in you,” Attorney General Jeffcoat says to Chuck during their meeting, “which is why you’re not gettin’ fired.” Neither common ground nor principled bipartisanship has anything to do with it: Jeffcoat simply wants someone he knows he can count on to bring down big game when called upon to do so. Advertisement Rarely has Red Sanders’s maxim “Winning isn’t everything; it’s the only thing” sounded quite so appropriate. Not even family, the last refuge of a prestige-TV scoundrel, is sacred. Bobby is in the middle of a divorce, and Chuck stabbed his father (Jeffrey DeMunn) in the back just to take down Axe, a favor the old man is eager to return. And while Chuck and Wendy’s marriage appears to be on the mend, they’re still keeping toxic secrets. During their bondage session, she flogs him while regaling him with details of an ostensibly imaginary liaison with another man at Chuck’s request. But she never admits that such a liaison actually happened, and he never tells her that his father’s private investigator uncovered the truth about it for him. So if you’re looking for an indictment of our age in here, look for it in what’s absent — ethics, morality, any sense that there’s a better way to run things. Chuck, Bobby, Taylor, Black Jack, Jeffcoat and the rest of the two warring tribes live these hard-charging, high-flying lives simply because they can. Money, politics, the law, even love: On “Billions,” they all come down to what you can get away with. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Patrick Chappatte Facebook’s privacy practices are being investigated by the Federal Trade Commission, the government agency confirmed on Monday. Patrick Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist for The New York Times. View more of his work, visit his website or follow him on Twitter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:34 P.M. E.D.T.
 ANKARA —  Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Monday it would be a big mistake to leave Turkey out of the European Union's enlargement process. At a summit between the bloc and membership candidate Turkey in Bulgaria's Varna, Erdogan said he hoped to have left difficult times with the EU behind. (Reporting by Tulay Karadeniz; Writing by Ece Toksabay; Editing by Catherine Evans) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:34 P.M. E.D.T.
 ANKARA —  Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Monday it would be a big mistake to leave Turkey out of the European Union's enlargement process. At a summit between the bloc and membership candidate Turkey in Bulgaria's Varna, Erdogan said he hoped to have left difficult times with the EU behind. (Reporting by Tulay Karadeniz; Writing by Ece Toksabay; Editing by Catherine Evans) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 11:29 P.M. E.D.T.
 OAKLAND, Calif. —  The Utah Jazz know they might have to contend with the Golden State Warriors again on the big playoff stage. A different version of the defending champions by then, most certainly — a far healthier version. Rudy Gobert had 17 points and 15 rebounds and the Jazz pulled away from the undermanned, injury-plagued Warriors in the third quarter on the way to a 110-91 victory Sunday night. Utah wants to make sure the rest of the regular season goes smoothly before thinking too far ahead. "We know it could be a rematch," Gobert said of another playoff series after Golden State swept the Jazz in last year's Western Conference semifinals. "We're focused on the moment." Quinn Cook had 17 points and eight assists as defending champion Golden State played without its four injured All-Stars and was forced to use yet another makeshift starting lineup. Advertisement Before the game, Warriors coach Steve Kerr ruled out Stephen Curry for the first round of the playoffs because of a sprained left knee — while Curry vowed to do everything in his rehab power to prove Kerr wrong and return sooner. Advertisement Donovan Mitchell scored 21 points for the Jazz, coming off a four-point overtime loss at San Antonio on Friday. Joe Ingles added 14 points with four 3-pointers, eight assists and six rebounds. This marked just the second time Golden State played without its four All-Stars after Curry, Kevin Durant, Draymond Green and Klay Thompson all sat for a 107-85 loss on March 11, 2017, at San Antonio. But, that time, Durant was the lone injured one of the group rehabbing a left knee injury while the other three simply rested. "I thought we hung in there pretty well," Kerr said. "We just didn't have enough firepower, but I like the way we fought." Green had been set to return Sunday, but was ruled out with flu-like symptoms. Kerr expects both Durant and Green back as soon as Tuesday against Indiana, while noting "Klay's coming along well" as he nurses a fractured right thumb. "Well, we've got to hold down the fort," Kerr said. "We've got enough. We're blessed with a great roster, a lot of depth and so, let's get going. Let's play and let's compete and hold down the fort. There's no reason why we can't come out and really play well down the stretch and be ready for the playoffs and then maybe we get Steph back and we'll see what happens."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cook, Nick Young, Patrick McCaw, Kevon Looney and JaVale McGee started. Cook went to the locker room late in the half after two crashing drives but returned for the third quarter, when the Warriors shot 8 for 20. Golden State began the game 5 for 16, but Utah was just 4 of 16. TIP-INS Jazz: The Jazz scored 36 points in the third. ... Utah shot 12 for 28 from 3-point range. ... Utah also won at Oracle Arena late last season with a 105-99 victory on April 10, 2017, Golden State's second-to-last game. ... C Tony Bradley missed his seventh straight game in the concussion protocol. Warriors: Kerr received a technical foul late in the first half for arguing, his sixth overall and first since Feb. 6 as he has made an effort to keep his cool. ... Golden State used its 23rd different starting lineup — after 14 lineups last season — most under Kerr. ... Curry won't travel for the remainder of the regular season while focusing on his rehab. Advertisement DETERMINED CURRY After Kerr announced of Curry "there's no way he's playing in the first round," the two-time MVP limped into a pregame news conference determined to prove his coach wrong . "It's nice that I'm walking and not limited with crutches or anything like that, so that's a positive," Curry said. An MRI exam Saturday showed a Grade 2 sprain of his medial collateral ligament and the team said Curry would be re-evaluated in three weeks — that would be April 14 and a possible Game 1 of the playoffs for Golden State. "Based on what I've been told, three weeks is a good kind of benchmark to re-evaluate and re-assess kind of where I'm at in my progress and whatnot, so mentally for me staying positive, staying upbeat, hopefully I prove what Coach said was wrong and put myself in position to get back as soon as possible," Curry said. "Right now, who knows? Just try to do my job in the rehab process and get back as soon as I can. Control my presence with the team and everything to help any way I can when I'm not on the floor." UP NEXT Jazz: Host Boston on Wednesday trying to end a three-game skid in the series. Warriors: Host Indiana on Tuesday looking for a fifth straight win against the Pacers. ___ More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:16 P.M. E.D.T.
 LOS ANGELES —  In Steven Spielberg's new movie "Ready Player One," disgruntled citizens in the year 2045 don virtual reality headsets to enter a digital universe where they can dance at hot clubs or race fancy cars through the streets of New York. Back in the real world in 2018, VR enthusiasts hope the fast-paced action movie heading to worldwide theaters this week will spark new interest in the technology and help boost what is now a niche market. "Ready Player One," based on a novel by Ernest Cline, features a group of teenagers who spend their days in VR goggles, suits and gloves to maneuver their avatars through a computerized wonderland called the Oasis. It is filled with infinite possibilities for working, learning and socializing. "You have a choice to spend all your time there, or make connections in the real world with real people, real eye contact," Spielberg said told Reuters in an interview. "In a way, our story is a cautionary tale as well as a great adventure." Advertisement The movie's hero, Wade Watts (Tye Sheridan), visits the Oasis to escape his miserable life in an Ohio trailer park. As his refuge comes under threat, Watts joins other avatars in a contest that could give them the power to protect the virtual world. Advertisement Existing VR capabilities are far more limited than what is portrayed in the film. For entertainment, VR's most prevalent use is in gaming, where players can battle in 360-degree settings seen through headsets from Facebook's Oculus unit, HTC Corp and others. Spielberg was among VR's early adopters. He had been toying with a headset at home before he made "Ready Player One," and he incorporated the technology behind the scenes. To appear in the Oasis, the actors had to perform in a nearly empty white room wearing motion-capture outfits so their movements could be transferred to digitally created sets. Spielberg had the Oasis sets re-built in VR. "Everybody had a chance to put on the headsets, and suddenly, wow, there you are in the set itself," he said. "It gave a kind of orientation so they weren't just acting in the abstract."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The film, which is being distributed by Time Warner Inc's Warner Bros, is shown on a traditional movie screen, no headset required. VR supporters hope "Ready Player One," filled with special effects and backed by an upbeat 1980s rock soundtrack, thrills audiences and piques their curiosity. Several related VR experiences, such as a trip inside the movie's dance club, will be offered on the HTC Vive headset through an official partnership with the film. People who do not own the equipment can head to VR arcades to try out the technology. "We are really are excited to show people VR is not something futuristic," said JB McRee, HTC Vive's senior manager of product marketing. "It really is something that exists now." Actress Lena Waithe, who plays an auto mechanic in the Oasis, said she enjoys VR but encouraged limits to time spent in a virtual world. "It's fascinating, but it can be a little dangerous if you play in it too much," she said. "There needs to be a bit of balance. I think that's the message we are trying to get through with the film." (Reporting by Lisa Richwine; Editing by Tom Brown) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:52 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  The Latest on reports that millions of Facebook users' data was used to target political ads (all times local): 3:30 p.m. Cook County is suing Facebook and Cambridge Analytica for fraud after revelations that the latter obtained data on millions of Facebook users. The lawsuit filed Friday in Cook County Circuit Court alleges Trump-affiliated political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica deceived the millions of Illinois Facebook users whose information it collected. It says Facebook failed to protect its users' privacy and misrepresented how their data would be used. London-based Cambridge Analytica has been accused of using Facebook data to influence voter behavior in U.S. elections. The Chicago Tribune reports the lawsuit filed by Cook County State's Attorney Kimberly Foxx on behalf of Illinois residents brings one consumer fraud count each against Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. It seeks $50,000 fines for each violation of the law. Advertisement Neither company has commented on the lawsuit. ___ 2:20 p.m. The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee says he's invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing next month on data privacy. Advertisement Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa says the April 10 hearing will cover how consumer data is collected, retained and distributed for commercial use. He says the hearing also will examine what steps companies like Facebook can do to better protect personal information. Grassley's committee is the third congressional panel to seek Zuckerberg's testimony in the wake of a privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-connected data-mining company. Several Judiciary Committee members had pressed Grassley to hold the hearing. Grassley says he's also invited Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey. ___ 12:15 p.m. The chief law enforcement officers for 37 U.S. states and territories are demanding to know when Facebook learned of a huge breach of privacy protections. The officers say in a letter Monday to CEO Mark Zuckerberg that users' trust in the social media platform is "broken." The attorneys general are asking how Facebook monitored what these developers did with all the data they collected and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse. They also asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to more easily control the privacy of their accounts.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cambridge Analytica, a political data-mining firm, is accused of lifting data from some 50 million Facebook users to influence voters in U.S. elections. Advertisement ___ 11:55 a.m. Germany's justice minister says she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook, following a meeting with executives about the abuse of users' private data. Katarina Barley says Facebook representatives assured her Monday that such breaches wouldn't occur again and pledged to inform those users who were affected. She added that "promises aren't enough, though. We will need to monitor companies such as Facebook much more strictly in future and also punish breaches of data protection strongly, swiftly and painfully." Barley said Facebook reacted "favorably" to her demand for greater transparency about the algorithms that underpin the company's data collection. She said campaigns such as "Delete Facebook" would likely make a strong impression on the company because "in the end the currency that Facebook works with is trust." ___ 10:50 a.m. The Federal Trade Commission is investigating Facebook's privacy practices following a week of privacy scandals including whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook's stock, which already took a big hit last week, plunged as a result. Facebook said in a statement on Monday that the company remains "strongly committed" to protecting people's information and that it welcomes the opportunity to answer the FTC's questions. News outlets have reported on the FTC investigation last week, but the FTC hadn't confirmed it until Monday. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances. ___ 5 a.m. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is promising to do a better job protecting user data following reports that a political consultant misused the personal information of millions of the company's subscribers. The fact is, European regulators are already forcing him to do so. Advertisement A similar data breach in the future could make Facebook liable for fines of more than $1.6 billion under the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation, which will be enforced from May 25. The rules, approved two years ago, also make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data and apply to any company that uses the data of EU residents, no matter where it is based. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:17 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  U.S. regulators and state attorneys general are increasing pressure on Facebook as they probe whether the company's data-collection practices have hurt the people who use its services. The Federal Trade Commission confirmed news reports on Monday that it was investigating the company. Separately, the attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse. Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after revelations that a Trump-affiliated consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, got data on millions of Facebook users. That included information on friends of people who had downloaded a psychological quiz app, even though those friends hadn't given explicit consent to sharing. Facebook is also facing questions about reports that it collected years of contact names, telephone numbers, call lengths and information about text messages from Android users. Facebook says the data is used "to improve people's experience across Facebook" by helping to connect with others. But the company did not spell out exactly what it used the data for or why it needed it. Advertisement European officials also have also been investigating or seeking more information. Germany's justice minister said Monday that she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook after a meeting with its executives about the abuse of users' data. Last week, a U.K. parliamentary media committee summoned CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify about how Facebook uses data, while U.K. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is investigating how Cambridge Analytica got the data. Advertisement In addition, the state's attorney of Cook County in Illinois has sued Facebook and Cambridge Analytica for consumer fraud after revelations that the latter obtained data on millions of Facebook users. Facebook has not commented on the lawsuit. The recent troubles follow Facebook's most difficult year yet, as the company dealt with fake news, "filter bubbles" that lead to increasing polarization, and congressional hearings over Russian agents' alleged use of social media to meddle with the 2016 presidential elections. In January, Zuckerberg set fixing Facebook as his personal challenge for 2018. Nearly three months in, it's a taller order than ever. Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data. Facebook said in a statement on Monday that the company remains "strongly committed" to protecting people's information and that it welcomes the opportunity to answer the FTC's questions.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, believes Facebook was in violation of the 2011 settlement in letting Cambridge Analytica harvest data on friends of Facebook users. He called the investigation "good news." "This is what Facebook was doing 10 years ago that people objected to, what the FTC should have stopped in 2011," Rotenberg said. "It makes zero sense that when a person downloads their apps, they have the ability to transfer the data of their friends." Although Zuckerberg talked about changes in 2014 that would have prevented this, Rotenberg said it should have been banned already under the 2011 consent decree. He said the FTC had dropped the ball in failing to enforce that. Advertisement Meanwhile, state attorneys general asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily. "Facebook has made promises about users' privacy in the past, and we need to know that users can trust Facebook," they wrote. "With the information we have now, our trust has been broken." In a statement, Facebook's vice president for state and local public policy, Will Castleberry, said the attorneys general "have raised important questions and we appreciate their interest. Our internal review of the situation continues and we look forward to responding." Facebook's stock, which already took a big hit last week, fell Monday after the FTC announcement but recovered by the end of the day. With Monday's close at $160.06, the stock is down almost 14 percent since March 16, when the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke. ___ Selsky reported from Salem, Oregon. AP Technology Writer Anick Jesdanun contributed to this story. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:56 P.M. E.D.T.
 ___ Is Zuckerberg willing to act boldly to fix Facebook crisis? Mark Zuckerberg says he is determined to fix Facebook, but the billionaire CEO is a study in contradictions. Praised as brilliant but stubborn, he is uniquely positioned to tackle the crisis enveloping the world's largest social network, which is under fire for allowing dark forces to exploit it, without protecting its 2.2 billion users. But is he prepared to do all that it will take? ___ FTC, states increase pressure on Facebook on privacy NEW YORK (AP) — U.S. regulators and state attorneys general are increasing pressure on Facebook, as they probe whether the company's data collection practices have hurt the people who use its services. The Federal Trade Commission is investigating Facebook's privacy practices following a week of privacy scandals including allegations a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm got data inappropriately from millions of Facebook users. Facebook's stock, which already took a big hit last week, plunged further. ___ Frontier gun maker Remington seeks bankruptcy protection Remington, the storied gun maker that began turning out flintlock rifles when there were only 19 states in the Union, has filed for bankruptcy reorganization amid years of slumping sales and legal and financial pressure over the Sandy Hook school massacre. It plans to turn over control to its creditors and continue operating. Gun sales in the U.S. have slid since the election of Donald Trump eased fears the government would crack down on firearms. ___ Watch it, Facebook: new EU data rules may have broad impact LONDON (AP) — Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is promising to do a better job protecting user data following reports that a political consultant misused the information of millions of subscribers. The fact is, new European regulations will force him to do so by the end of May. The new rules are arguably the most significant regulation in a generation. They are an effort to catch up on all the technological advances for decades, when the last comprehensive measures were put in place. Advertisement ___ US stocks rally; Dow surges 669, clawing back lost ground NEW YORK (AP) — News that the U.S. and China are open to negotiate to avert a trade war put investors in a buying mood Monday, giving the market its best day in more than two years and erasing about half of its huge losses last week. Technology companies accounted for much of the broad rally, which powered the Dow Jones industrial average to a gain of nearly 670 points. Advertisement ___ Judge: Less mining must be studied for No. 1 US coal region CHEYENNE, Wyo. (AP) — A judge has ruled U.S. government officials engaged in regional planning for an area that supplies 40 percent of the nation's coal must consider reducing coal mining to fight climate change. Friday's ruling by U.S. District Judge Brian Morris in Great Falls, Montana, applies to the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana. Environmentalists praised the ruling but Morris denied their request to halt mining.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ___ South Korea agrees to further open auto market to US SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — South Korea has agreed to further open its auto market to the United States as the two countries prepare to amend their six-year-old free trade agreement. Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said Monday that the United States will end tariffs on South Korean pick-up trucks in 2041 instead of 2021, while South Korea will relax standards on imported U.S. vehicles. Kim said South Korea won an exemption from import tariffs on steel products. ___ Battle brews over fund that feeds Alaskans' yearly oil check JUNEAU, Alaska (AP) — A battle is brewing over earnings from Alaska's oil wealth fund, which provides annual payouts for residents in the state. Lawmakers are faced with limited options for filling a budget deficit that has deepened amid years of low oil prices. They're considering dipping into fund earnings to help pay the state's bills. Major proposals include changing how Alaskans' annual checks from fund earnings are calculated. The check amount has been capped the past two years, fueling anger among some. ___ Comptroller: Wall Street average bonus topped $184K in 2017 ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) — New York state's top elected fiscal officer says the average bonus paid to securities industry employees in New York City rose by 17 percent last year as Wall Street profits soared for a second consecutive year. Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli says Monday that the average bonus paid to brokers jumped to more than $184,000. Pretax profits for operations of New York Stock Exchange member firms jumped 42 percent to $24.5 billion. ___ The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 70.29 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,658.55. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 669.40 points, or 2.8 percent, to 24,202.60. The Dow lost more than 1,400 points last week and is still down slightly for the year. Benchmark U.S. crude fell 33 cents to settle at $65.55 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, shed 33 cents to close at $70.12 in London. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:59 P.M. E.D.T.
 CHANHASSEN, Minn. —  The Latest on Prince, who died April 21, 2016, of an accidental fentanyl overdose (all times local): 4:55 p.m. A toxicology report from Prince's autopsy shows he had exceedingly high concentrations of fentanyl throughout his body when he died. Prince was 57 when he was found alone and unresponsive in an elevator at his Paisley Park estate on April 21, 2016. Public data released six weeks later showed he died of an accidental fentanyl overdose. A confidential toxicology report obtained Monday by The Associated Press says the concentration of fentanyl in Prince's blood was 67.8 migrograms per liter — a level experts called exceedingly high, even for someone who may have a tolerance to opioids. The level of fentanyl in Prince's liver was 450 micrograms per kilogram. The report explains that liver concentrations greater than 69 micrograms per kilogram "seem to represent overdose or fatal toxicity cases." There was also what experts called a potentially lethal amount of fentanyl in his stomach, which his body had not absorbed. Advertisement ___ 12:30 p.m. A tribute fence will be installed at Prince's famed music studio and home in Minnesota as officials prepare for fans returning on the second anniversary of the rock star's death.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The fence will be set up inside the grounds at Paisley Park , where Prince died from an accidental painkiller overdose on April 21, 2016. It will also display fan messages and artifacts that Paisley Park has archived. Paisley Park also announced on Monday new details about Celebration 2018, the second annual gathering for Prince fans from April 19-22. Ten more guest speakers have been added, including The Revolution members Bobby Z, Dez Dickerson and Matt Fink. Advertisement The celebration includes a concert called "Prince: Live On The Big Screen" at Target Center in Minneapolis, where fans can also leave messages on a specially erected fence. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 11:40 A.M. E.D.T.
 BOSTON —  Goldman Sachs Group Inc pays employees a much bigger portion in stock than Wall Street rivals, a trend that has come into sharper focus as the bank overhauls its business strategy. Goldman’s “burn rate” – the proportion of outstanding stock used to pay everyone from Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein to rank-and-file workers – averaged 3 percent over the past three years, the bank said on Friday in its annual proxy filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That three-year burn rate compares with 0.64 percent recently reported by Citigroup Inc, and 1.82 percent at financial companies in the S&P 500, according to proxy adviser Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS). Big investors take notice of a burn rate because it measures how much value a company transfers to executives, said John Roe, head of ISS’s data arm. Advertisement "The faster the company is diluting shareholders, the harder the company has to work just to get up to par,” Roe said. Advertisement Investors asked Goldman to put a special focus on its stock grant practices and how they dilute shareholders during feedback sessions last year, the bank said in its proxy filing. A spokeswoman declined to comment further. If the high burn rate persists, Goldman stock could become less attractive to investors relative to its peers while potentially weighing on its operating performance. Although Goldman slashed its annual burn rate to 2.2 percent last year from 6.6 percent in 2010, it remains elevated partly because of its business mix, which the bank is now trying to change.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Unlike rivals that have big retail operations stocked with bank tellers and other salaried branch workers, Goldman’s workforce is more weighted with investment bankers and traders. They typically receive a hearty portion of their pay in stock. That is by design, to better align their interests and risk-taking with shareholders. Goldman also has been aggressively buying back stock, which elevates the burn rate. The bank has reduced outstanding shares 27 percent since the end of 2009, giving it a historically low share count, according to its proxy. CHANGES AFOOT Looking ahead, Goldman is moving into businesses like digital banking to offset declines in bond trading, its one-time profit engine. It has also been shifting workers from big cities to low-cost hubs to cut compensation expenses. Those trends could help subdue its burn rate. (http://reut.rs/AdGtFv) Goldman finds itself using “muscles we never exercised before” as it shifts toward consumer-facing businesses, Blankfein told an audience in Boston last week. “For us, there’s an evolution here. We became a bank holding company over a weekend,” Blankfein said, alluding to a move forced by the 2007-2009 financial crisis. “We didn’t do a lot of bank-like activities that could even be in a bank.” Building “Goldman Sachs 3.0” is a process that will take time, he said. As the biggest individual holder of Goldman shares, Blankfein arguably has more at stake in the transition than anyone else. The 2.3 million common shares he owns is worth about $571 million, according to the company’s proxy. Advertisement (Writing by Tim McLaughlin in Boston; Additional reporting by David Henry and Catherine Ngai in New York and Ross Kerber in Boston; Editing by Nick Zieminski) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:26 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  To get an idea of the data Facebook collects about you, just ask for it. You'll get a file with every photo and comment you've posted, all the ads you've clicked on, stuff you've liked and searched for and everyone you've friended — and unfriended — over the years. Now, the company is under fire for collecting data on people's phone calls and text messages if they used Android devices. While Facebook insists users had to specifically agree, or opt in, to have such data collected, at least some users appeared surprised. Facebook's trove of data is used to decide which ads to show you. It also makes using Facebook more seamless and enjoyable — say, by determining which posts to emphasize in your feed, or reminding you of friends' birthdays. Facebook claims to protect all this information, and it lays out its terms in a privacy policy that's relatively clear and concise. But few users bother to read it. You might be surprised at what Facebook's privacy policy allows — and what's left unsaid. Advertisement Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, got data inappropriately from millions of Facebook users. While past privacy debacles have centered on what marketers gather on users, the stakes are higher this time because the firm is alleged to have created psychological profiles to influence how people vote or even think about politics and society. Advertisement Facebook defends its data collection and sharing activities by noting that it's adhering to a privacy policy it shares with users. Thanks largely to years of privacy scandals and pressure from users and regulators, Facebook also offers a complex set of controls that let users limit how their information is used — to a point. You can turn off ad targeting and see generic ads instead, the way you would on television or in a newspaper. In the ad settings, you'd need to uncheck all your interests, interactions with companies and websites and other personal information you don't want to use in targeting. Of course, if you click on a new interest after this, you'll have to go back and uncheck it in your ad preferences to prevent targeting. It's a tedious task. As Facebook explains, it puts you in target categories based on your activity. So, if you are 35, live in Seattle and have liked an outdoor adventure page, Facebook may show you an ad for a mountain bike shop in your area. But activity isn't limited to pages or posts you like, comments you make and your use of outside apps and websites.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "If you start typing something and change your mind and delete it, Facebook keeps those and analyzes them too," Zeynep Tufekci, a prominent techno-sociologist, said in a 2017 TED talk. And, increasingly, Facebook tries to match what it knows about you with your offline data, purchased from data brokers or gathered in other ways. The more information it has, the fuller the picture of you it can offer to advertisers. It can infer things about you that you had no intention of sharing — anything from your ethnicity to personality traits, happiness and use of addictive substances, Tufekci said. These types of data collection aren't necessarily explicit in privacy policies or settings. What Facebook does say is that advertisers don't get the raw data. They just tell Facebook what kind of people they want their ads to reach, then Facebook makes the matches and shows the ads. Apps can also collect a lot of data about you, as revealed in the Cambridge Analytica scandal. The firm got the data from a researcher who paid 270,000 Facebook users to complete a psychological profile quiz back in 2014. But the quiz gathered information on their friends as well, bringing the total number of people affected to about 50 million. Advertisement Facebook says Cambridge Analytica got the data inappropriately — but only because the app said it collected data for research rather than political profiling. Gathering data on friends was permitted at the time, even if they had never installed the app or given explicit consent. Ian Bogost, a Georgia Tech communications professor who built a tongue-in-cheek game called "Cow Clicker" in 2010, wrote in The Atlantic recently that abusing the Facebook platform for "deliberately nefarious ends" was easy to do then. What's worse, he said, it was hard to avoid extracting private data. If "you played Cow Clicker, even just once, I got enough of your personal data that, for years, I could have assembled a reasonably sophisticated profile of your interests and behavior," he wrote. "I might still be able to; all the data is still there, stored on my private server, where Cow Clicker is still running, allowing players to keep clicking where a cow once stood." Facebook has since restricted the amount of types of data apps can access. But other types of data collection are still permitted. For this reason, it's a good idea to check all the apps you've given permissions to over the years. You can also do this in your settings. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:58 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee said on Monday it had invited the chief executive officers of Facebook Inc, Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy. The hearing follows allegations that Cambridge Analytica, a British political consultancy, gained inappropriate access to data on 50 million Facebook users, prompting the Federal Trade Commission to launch an investigation. Senator Charles Grassley, the committee's chairman, said he invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg "to testify at the hearing to discuss Facebook’s past and future policies regarding the protection and monitoring of consumer data." Facebook is facing pressure from advertisers as the social network struggles with government scrutiny following the allegations. Zuckerberg last week apologized for mistakes that Facebook made in how it handled data belonging to 50 million of its users. Advertisement A Facebook spokesman said the company had received the hearing invitation and was reviewing it. A Twitter spokeswoman declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Google parent Alphabet did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Advertisement The hearing could be the highest-profile appearance by technology companies amid growing calls to regulate the industry.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The hearing will broadly cover privacy standards for the collection, retention and dissemination of consumer data for commercial use." Grassley said. "It will also examine how such data may be misused or improperly transferred and what steps companies like Facebook can take to better protect personal information of users and ensure more transparency in the process." Last week, the House of Representatives Energy and Commerce Committee formally invited Zuckerberg to testify and the Senate Commerce Committee also invited him to appear. Neither committee has set a date for a hearing. Facebook executives spent Wednesday and Thursday on Capitol Hill briefing congressional committee staffers. Zuckerberg said last week he would be willing to testify if he is the right person at the company to speak to lawmakers. (Reporting by David Shepardson; Editing by Paul Simao and Leslie Adler) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:56 A.M. E.D.T.
 SINGAPORE —  Singapore's pharmaceuticals business, among the pillars of the city-state's manufacturing sector, is set to return to strength this year as big global drugmakers ramp up output and advance automation at their production sites across the country. A recovery from dismal 2017, which marked the sector's worst contraction in two decades, would underpin Singapore's economic growth. Pharmaceuticals is the No.2 contributor to the country's manufacturing output and accounts for 3 percent of its GDP. The sector will see a "robust" 2018, Singapore's Economic Development Board (EDB) told Reuters. "The opening of new sites like AbbVie's biologics manufacturing facility and the ramp up of others including Amgen and Novartis reflect strong fundamentals ... we expect the manufacturing activity to remain robust for 2018," said Ho Weng Si, director of biomedical sciences for EDB. "Outlook for the industry as a whole remains positive for the next few years," Ho added, citing the pace of new drug approvals by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration that hit a 21-year high in 2017. Advertisement Singapore is well placed to benefit from this uptick in approvals as it hosts facilities of eight of the world's top 10 drugmakers - such as Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer and Sanofi. Advertisement Sanofi, which in Singapore mainly produces ingredients for blood-thinning drugs shipped globally, told Reuters it expects production "to be relatively stable to slightly increasing in coming years" as it invests to upgrade capacity. A quarterly EDB survey of the manufacturing sector shows the pharmaceuticals industry is the most optimistic about production over January-March, with a net weighted balance of 56 percent of firms expecting output to rise from the preceding three months. EDB's Ho and the survey did not provide a specific forecast. Data shows pharmaceutical production dropped in January, albeit at a milder pace, and rose 15.2 percent from a year ago in February, bringing gains so far this year to about 7 percent.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Output shrank 15.6 percent in 2017, the largest annual contraction since at least 1993. Singapore's pharmaceutical output has risen more than three-fold since the start of this century, with the sector generating S$17 billion ($13 billion) worth of products last year. ADVANCEMENTS IN TECHNOLOGY, AUTOMATION The outlook for recovery, however, is not free of headwinds. Output in pharmaceuticals is inherently volatile because production happens in batches, which can take anywhere from a few days to weeks to make. But thanks to advancements in technology, industry players are hoping to achieve more consistent production levels. GSK, which has been manufacturing in Singapore for nearly 50 years, has been pioneering a technology called continuous manufacturing where instead of making products in batches, materials are constantly added and products removed. Last year, for the first time products were commercially made using this technology. "The pharma industry has to progress on the technology front ... to ensure we increase productivity," said Lim Hock Heng, a site director in Singapore for GSK. Mundipharma hopes to start commercial production of antiseptics at its new plant in Singapore as early as the fourth quarter of 2019 - which according to CEO Raman Singh "will be the most automated plant in the world compared to any other competitors". Advertisement (Reporting by Masayuki Kitano and John Geddie; Editing by Jack Kim and Himani Sarkar) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:43 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAO PAULO —  Global investment banks from Citigroup to Goldman Sachs are hiring again in Brazil after years of retrenchment as historically low interest rates fuel a recovery as well as a small boom in M&A and stock and local bond offerings. Most of the moves, several of them involving one bank hiring away top talent from another, are likely to wrap up by the end of the first quarter, when bonuses related to the former year are paid. Some of the hirings were announced late last year and effective from February to April. Although there is no official data on investment banking jobs in Brazil, the elite bankers whose employers' steel and glass towers line Sao Paulo's Faria Lima avenue represent less than 2 percent of the 467,900 employees of the banking industry in the country. Citigroup Inc.'s Brazil unit late last year poached Eduardo Miras, former co-head of investment banking at Morgan Stanley, to head Citi's equivalent unit, which has remained active even after the U.S. bank sold its retail business to Brazil's Itaú Unibanco Holding SA. Advertisement More than two executives also left Morgan Stanley to join Citi with Miras, people with knowledge of the matter said. The banks declined to comment. Advertisement Morgan Stanley, in turn, hired former Citi managing director Felipe Mattar a month later and relocated two other executives within the bank to Brazil. Flavio Valadao, former head of investment banking at Banco Santander Brasil SA, is expected to begin as vice-chairman of the Brazilian unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co next month, after the departure of Patricia Moraes, who had been at the U.S. bank for more than 20 years. “We are investing in new hirings due to the increased activity in Brazilian capital markets and M&A," JPMorgan's head of investment banking in Brazil Pedro Juliano said in an interview at the bank's headquarters in Sao Paulo last week.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Among other Wall Street banks, Goldman Sachs Group Inc hired banker Ricardo Bellissi, who had replaced Valadao as the head of investment banking at Santander Brasil. To replace him, Santander hired Paulo Mendes, who was running his own M&A boutique. BUSY YEAR Last year was Brazil's busiest for initial public offerings since 2013, with 10 IPOs raising $5.5 billion. Including secondary offerings, Brazilian companies raised around $13 billion, nearly five times the amount in 2016. Brazilian mergers and acquisitions activity surged 33 percent last year to $61.8 billion in deals, driven by asset sales by conglomerates under pressure for corruption probes, such as J&F Investimentos, which also owns meatpacker JBS SA. Deals in the first quarter were valued at nearly $15 billion with an increasing number of acquisitions motivated by big synergies or bets on the country's recovery, such as the deal between pulp makers Suzano Papel e Celulose SA and Fibria Celulose SA announced earlier this month. Brazilian banks such as Itaú Unibanco Holding SA, Banco Bradesco SA and Banco BTG Pactual SA, which already had larger deals teams and did not cut staff as much during the recession, have not hired senior people recently. Some of them, such as BTG Pactual, are adding junior bankers. "We do not radically change the team's size according to market conditions, we endure the cycles," said Roderick Greenlees, head of investment banking at Itaú Unibanco's investment bank, Itaú BBA SA. Advertisement (Reporting by Tatiana Bautzer and Carolina Mandl; Editing by Christian Plumb and Daniel Flynn) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:16 P.M. E.D.T.
 BERLIN —  Misuse of data by Facebook means it will in future be bound by stricter regulations and the threat of tougher penalties for further privacy violations, Germany's justice minister said on Monday. Katarina Barley spoke after talks to which she summoned executives of the firm including European public affairs chief Richard Allan. "Facebook admitted abuses and excesses in the past and gave assurances that measures since taken mean they can't happen again," she said. "But promises aren't enough. In future we will have to regulate companies like Facebook much more strictly." The firm has faced a global outcry over allegations that data from millions of users was improperly harvested by consultancy Cambridge Analytica to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections. Advertisement Facebook's shares fell more than 5 percent on Wall Street on Monday after the U.S. consumer protection regulator made public the fact it is investigating the firm over the Cambridge Analytica link. Advertisement Facebook managers were not present for Barley's news conference, held after a meeting she called "long, intensive and controversial." She said the firm told her around 1 percent of 300,000 users of a personality quiz whose results were later fed into Cambridge Analytica's voter-targeting algorithms were in Europe.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It was still unclear how many of them were in Germany, or how many of the further 50 million users in their friendship circles whose data the consultancy used were in Germany or Europe, she said. Facebook had promised to try and contact all those affected. Memories of two 20th-century totalitarian surveillance states make privacy issues especially sensitive in Germany, where competition authorities have since last year been probing the social network's use of data from partner websites. "We need well-equipped data protection authorities and confident users who know their rights," Barley said. "The sovereignty of users must be strengthened." Federal Cartel Office President Andreas Mundt told Tagesspiegel in comments released by the newspaper on Monday that users were largely unaware how much information flowed to the social network when they visited third-party websites with Facebook integration. The office was working on the basis of possible abuses stemming from "the collection and assessment of data from third-party sources outside Facebook," he said. Facebook declined to comment on Mundt's remarks. (Reporting by Thomas Escritt; Editing by John Stonestreet) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:16 P.M. E.D.T.
 BERLIN —  Companies like Facebook must face stricter regulation and tougher penalties meted out by better equipped data-protection authorities, Germany's justice minister said on Monday after a meeting with senior executives from the company. Katarina Barley summoned the bosses, including European public affairs chief Richard Allan, after allegations surfaced that data from millions of its users was improperly used by consultants Cambridge Analytica to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections. "Facebook admitted abuses and excesses in the past and gave assurances that measures since taken mean they can't happen again," she said. "But promises aren't enough. In future we will have to regulate companies like Facebook much more strictly." (Reporting by Thomas Escritt; Editing by Joseph Nasr) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By RAYMOND ZHONGMARCH 25, 2018
 Uber, which for years spread across the globe with command-and-conquer rapaciousness, is pulling back from another major ride-hailing market. The company said on Sunday that it would sell its Southeast Asia ride and food-delivery businesses to Grab, a rival based in Singapore, in the latest move to shore up its finances and refocus its business ahead of a planned public listing. Uber will get a 27.5 percent stake in Grab in exchange. Uber’s chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, will join Grab’s board. Further financial terms were not disclosed. The détente in Southeast Asia, which is similar to deals Uber has made in China and Russia in recent years, comes at a time of larger changes at the company, based in San Francisco. Advertisement SoftBank, the Japanese conglomerate that recently took a big stake in Uber, has also backed a host of its competitors, including Grab in Southeast Asia, Ola in India and Didi Chuxing, which bought Uber’s China business in 2016. That means SoftBank would rather these companies did not spend too much money competing against one another. Advertisement Uber’s exit from Southeast Asia, a region of more than 600 million people, also reflects the new direction the company is taking under Mr. Khosrowshahi, who replaced Travis Kalanick as chief executive last year. Mr. Khosrowshahi has forsworn his predecessor’s infamously pugnacious way of doing business. And with a mandate to take Uber public, he has set out to repair relations with regulators, fix a troubled workplace culture and calm Wall Street about the company’s financial prospects. Uber said it lost $1.1 billion in the last three months of 2017, somewhat less than it lost in the preceding quarter. “It is fair to ask whether consolidation is now the strategy of the day,” Mr. Khosrowshahi wrote in an email to staff. “The answer is no.” He continued: “One of the potential dangers of our global strategy is that we take on too many battles across too many fronts and with too many competitors. This transaction now puts us in a position to compete with real focus and weight in the core markets where we operate.” Grab was introduced in 2012 and now operates in eight Southeast Asian countries: Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. And it has put up a tough fight.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. With passengers in nearly 200 cities across the region, the company is aiming to be more than just a transportation provider. It wants its digital wallet, GrabPay, to replace cash as a way to pay for things at offline shops and restaurants. And in a region where many people lack credit histories or even bank accounts, Grab is undertaking a venture to make loans to consumers and small businesses. Data collected through Grab’s app, on users’ movements and transactions, is used to assess their creditworthiness. Grab also offers a wide variety of ways for people to get around. In Singapore, you can hop on a GrabShuttle that, like a public bus, will take you between points along a fixed route. In jam-packed Jakarta, you can use Grab’s app to hail a nearby motorbike taxi right off the street, forgoing the usual process of prebooking and waiting for the driver to arrive at your location. The company is generally regarded as the market leader in Southeast Asia. But in Indonesia, the region’s most populous country, it  is taking on Go-Jek, a local rival whose apps offer services, such as massages on demand and motorbike parcel deliveries, that go beyond just rides. Go-Jek’s investors include Google and Tencent, the Chinese internet conglomerate. Advertisement In an interview, Ming Maa, Grab’s president, said that the deal with Uber would help Grab move closer to profitability, although he declined to give specifics. One key benefit of combining with Uber, Mr. Maa said, is that it immediately expands Grab’s food-delivery operations. “That has massive, massive benefits to our consumer base,” he said, “but is also a key driver for our mobile payments business.” For Uber, ceding Southeast Asia still leaves it with plenty of challengers elsewhere in the world. Didi Chuxing, based in Beijing, invested alongside SoftBank in Grab last year. It recently raised money from SoftBank and other investors at a valuation of $56 billion — higher than the $48 billion at which Uber was valued as part of last year’s stake sale to SoftBank. Now, Didi wants to go global. The company, whose full name is pronounced “dee-dee choo-SHING,” recently took control of 99, an Uber rival in Brazil, and is recruiting on LinkedIn ahead of a planned opening in Mexico. Didi is also aiming to expand soon into Japan — a market in which Uber, too, will make a big push this year, according to Mr. Khosrowshahi. SoftBank, despite being an investor in both Uber and Didi, announced recently that it would partner with Didi in Japan. Follow Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @zhonggg. A version of this article appears in print on March 26, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Uber to Sell to Regional Rival in Southeast Asia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:20 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  The world's biggest credit ratings agency S&P Global has cut more than five of its most senior sovereign analysts as part of a broader reduction of in excess of 100 staff, a source told Reuters. The firm's highly-regarded sovereign division, which monitors the creditworthiness of some 130 countries, is also being folded into its bank-focused Financial Services arm. The most high-profile exit under that reorganization has been its top global analyst, Moritz Kraemer, the source with knowledge of the cuts said. Kraemer was the firm's public face for its mass downgrades of euro zone countries during the debt crises of 2011 and 2012, and for states hit by the commodity price collapse of 2014. Advertisement Others veterans to have left include its chief Europe, Middle East and Africa analyst Myriam Fernandez de Heredia Martinez and Liesl Saldanha, who oversaw Asia-Pacific from Singapore as well as a number of their deputies. Advertisement "The sovereign group has basically been dismantled," said the source who spoke to Reuters on the condition of anonymity. "It's a major decision. It took 25 years to build up the reputation as a leader in the sector." An S&P spokesman confirmed changes had been made but did not put a figure on departures. "We have made some organizational changes globally as we continue to move toward a structure that is simpler and more effective," the spokesman said. "Some individuals are leaving the organization as a result." S&P Global, which is home to the Standard and Poor's name and employs around 1,400 analysts, has been in flux since it was rebranded from McGraw Hill Financial two years ago. The latest cuts took shape last month when two of the firm’s three rating divisions, Sovereigns-International Public Finance and Financial Services' were combined at a regional level. It was the sovereigns arm that took the hit in terms of senior staff though. The top Financial Services analysts took over the combined units in U.S. and Canada, EMEA and Asia-Pacific, while in Latin America the lead analytical manager for Corporates took control. The source estimated that around 110 analysts had either been cut or left S&P's three ratings divisions.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. UNDER SCRUTINY The changes are likely to raise eyebrows within the sector and the governments that S&P and its main rivals, Moody's and Fitch, monitor. S&P has generally been faster and more aggressive with its sovereign rating moves than Moody's and Fitch over recent years, which has also led to some intense public scrutiny. Advertisement The firm and five of its former and current managers were acquitted last year after Italian prosecutors had accused them and Fitch's top sovereign analyst of market manipulation at the peak of the euro zone's downgrades. It was censured for wrongly announcing France's rating had been downgraded in 2011 and that year had to hire round-the-clock guards for some top staff after it stripped the United States of its triple-A rating. The sovereigns business brings in only about 8 percent of the firm's revenues - roughly the same as it was a decade ago. The larger Corporates division has doubled its contribution over that period to 55 percent. S&P has an EU market share of 46 percent, ESMA data shows, well ahead of Moody's on 31 percent. It recently announced plans to make a new Dublin office its post-Brexit EU headquarters, despite already having sizable offices and staff numbers in Frankfurt, Paris, Madrid and Milan. "It shows the desire of the firm to extract regulatory rent from this," the source said referring to the potential benefit of Ireland's lower taxes and more flexible labor laws. The big three agencies have most of their European staff in London, and are facing regulatory demands to move "sufficient" numbers of senior personnel to the EU when Britain leaves the bloc. (Reporting by Marc Jones; editing by John Stonestreet) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By MARTHA C. WHITEMARCH 26, 2018
 The hotel business has been a good one in recent years, as the economy has gathered strength. But there’s one area that’s been lagging — hosting corporate meeting and conferences. Now, the hotel industry is hoping that lower corporate taxes will finally change that. “The corporate and groups market has been sluggish and hasn’t responded as well to the economic growth,” said Lorraine Sileo, senior vice president for research at Phocuswright, a travel market research firm. “There’s definitely a lot of optimism that this is just a segment that’s waiting to improve and that gains are expected.” Back in November, executives at both Marriott International and Hilton Worldwide expressed hope that the proposed corporate tax cuts would prompt companies to spend more at hotels. The tax bill was signed in December, and by February, when the two executives spoke with investors about their fourth-quarter earnings, they said there were indications that the tide had begun to turn. Hilton’s chief executive, Chris Nassetta, said business travel demand was better than expected, and Marriott’s chief executive, Arne M. Sorenson, characterized the mood in corporate America post-tax reform as optimistic. Advertisement TravelClick, which analyzes booking activity at 50,000 hotels, found that growth in overall bookings grew by 1.3 percent in February and 1.5 percent in March, year over year — meaningful gains, according to that company’s senior industry analyst, John Hach. “What we’re seeing is a consistent uptick in activity in organic growth that we hadn’t witnessed before the tax cut,” he said. For the second half of 2018, the pace of group bookings is picking up, as well as business trips over all, he said. “That was not existent prior to tax reform.” Still, some hotel industry analysts were not so quick to say that the corporate tax cuts would result in strong growth in the corporate meeting business. “It’s still too early to say, ‘Let’s loosen the purse strings,’” said Michael Bellisario, senior research analyst at Robert W. Baird & Company. He noted that hotels had been raising prices as demand for their rooms had increased. “C.E.O.s and C.F.O.s are saying, ‘Watch your budgets.’” But other analysts were more optimistic, saying the full impact of the tax cuts might not be visible just yet. “It’s so fresh, we don’t have a lot to go on in terms of pure results,” said Scott Berman, United States hospitality and leisure practice leader at the accounting firm PwC. “I just think everybody’s trying to digest it.” Advertisement Indeed, Ms. Sileo, of Phocuswright, said the timeline of corporate travel budgets and contracts could be holding back some additional demand. “Budgets for meetings, for group travel and for corporate travel were set in 2017,” she said. “So the impact of the tax legislation in 2018 might not even hit until they budget for 2019.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Once corporate hotel bookings return in strong numbers, they should have staying power, since bookings for large meetings are made months, if not years, in advance. But some hotel industry experts were skeptical that the tax cuts should get much credit, given the overall strength of the hotel industry in the United States. Bjorn Hanson, a professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality at New York University, estimated that RevPAR, a common hotel industry metric that is short for “revenue per available room,” would gain only 0.3 percent this year from the tax cuts. And Mike McCormick, executive director of the Global Business Travel Association, said, “I don’t think we have enough data to know whether this is short term, or whether this will be sustained.” He noted a drop in international visitors, blaming a shift toward nationalism. “There are a lot of other factors at play here,” he said. “The impact that the administration’s policies have had on the group and meeting business is not a surprise for us.” Another issue is that booking growth is running out of room — literally. “We’ve had 90-plus months of occupancy growth,” Mr. Berman, of PwC, pointed out, and hotels in big cities routinely sell out. Hotels have been able to raise their rates in these markets, but the flip side to higher profits is the risk of dissuading future bookings, especially for large room-block commitments as the law of supply and demand kicks in. “That’s where it becomes a little tricky,” Mr. Berman said. Even though companies will have lower effective tax rates, Steven M. Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, said provisions in the new law curtailing deductions for business entertainment expenses could dampen any positive effect. “What the bill gave with extra stimulus in the one hand could be pulled back a bit by limiting business expenses on the other hand,” he said. “The jury is out as to whether lower-taxed corporate profits will lead to more investments in the business, including travel and facilitating meetings and the like.” An earlier version of this article misstated the number of hotels whose booking activity the travel consulting firm TravelClick analyzes. It is 50,000, not 38,000. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:20 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  The world's biggest credit ratings agency S&P Global has cut more than five of its most senior sovereign analysts as part of a broader reduction of in excess of 100 staff, a source told Reuters. The firm's highly-regarded sovereign division, which monitors the creditworthiness of some 130 countries, is also being folded into its bank-focused Financial Services arm. The most high-profile exit under that reorganisation has been its top global analyst, Moritz Kraemer, the source with knowledge of the cuts said. Kraemer was the firm's public face for its mass downgrades of euro zone countries during the debt crises of 2011 and 2012, and for states hit by the commodity price collapse of 2014. Advertisement Others veterans to have left include its chief Europe, Middle East and Africa analyst Myriam Fernandez de Heredia Martinez and Liesl Saldanha, who oversaw Asia-Pacific from Singapore as well as a number of their deputies. Advertisement "The sovereign group has basically been dismantled," said the source who spoke to Reuters on the condition of anonymity. "It's a major decision. It took 25 years to build up the reputation as a leader in the sector." An S&P spokesman confirmed changes had been made but did not put a figure on departures. "We have made some organizational changes globally as we continue to move toward a structure that is simpler and more effective," the spokesman said. "Some individuals are leaving the organization as a result." S&P Global, which is home to the Standard and Poor's name and employs around 1,400 analysts, has been in flux since it was rebranded from McGraw Hill Financial two years ago. The latest cuts took shape last month when two of the firm’s three rating divisions, Sovereigns-International Public Finance and Financial Services' were combined at a regional level. It was the sovereigns arm that took the hit in terms of senior staff though. The top Financial Services analysts took over the combined units in U.S. and Canada, EMEA and Asia-Pacific, while in Latin America the lead analytical manager for Corporates took control. The source estimated that around 110 analysts had either been cut or left S&P's three ratings divisions.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. UNDER SCRUTINY The changes are likely to raise eyebrows within the sector and the governments that S&P and its main rivals, Moody's and Fitch, monitor. S&P has generally been faster and more aggressive with its sovereign rating moves than Moody's and Fitch over recent years, which has also led to some intense public scrutiny. Advertisement The firm and five of its former and current managers were acquitted last year after Italian prosecutors had accused them and Fitch's top sovereign analyst of market manipulation at the peak of the euro zone's downgrades. It was censured for wrongly announcing France's rating had been downgraded in 2011 and that year had to hire round-the-clock guards for some top staff after it stripped the United States of its triple-A rating. The sovereigns business brings in only about 8 percent of the firm's revenues - roughly the same as it was a decade ago. The larger Corporates division has doubled its contribution over that period to 55 percent. S&P has an EU market share of 46 percent, ESMA data shows, well ahead of Moody's on 31 percent. It recently announced plans to make a new Dublin office its post-Brexit EU headquarters, despite already having sizable offices and staff numbers in Frankfurt, Paris, Madrid and Milan. "It shows the desire of the firm to extract regulatory rent from this," the source said referring to the potential benefit of Ireland's lower taxes and more flexible labour laws. The big three agencies have most of their European staff in London, and are facing regulatory demands to move "sufficient" numbers of senior personnel to the EU when Britain leaves the bloc. (Reporting by Marc Jones; editing by John Stonestreet) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 7:12 P.M. E.D.T.
 HONOLULU —  In a story March 26 about a fishing vessel that sank near Hawaii, The Associated Press, relying on information provided the U.S. Coast Guard, reported erroneously that the Coast Guard observed only the stern of the vessel above water. Images provided by the Coast Guard show the bow, not the stern, of the vessel above the waterline. The Coast Guard also erroneously reported the length of the vessel. It was 61 feet, not 89 feet. A corrected version of the story is below: Fishing boat sinks, crew saved hundreds of miles off Hawaii The U.S. Coast Guard says a commercial fishing crew and a federal observer have been rescued after their vessel sunk hundreds of miles off the coast of Hawaii By CALEB JONES Associated Press HONOLULU (AP) — A commercial fishing crew and a federal observer were rescued after their vessel sank and they spent hours in a life raft hundreds of miles off the coast of Hawaii, the U.S. Coast Guard said Monday. The agency said it received an emergency distress alert from the Princess Hawaii late Sunday morning about 400 miles (644 kilometers) north of the Big Island. A few hours later, a Coast Guard plane got to the area, where rescuers saw a flare and found eight people in a life raft. Advertisement The 61-foot longline fishing boat was mostly submerged with only the bow above water. Officials said the Coast Guard air crew dropped a radio to the life raft and helped establish communication with the vessel's sister ship, the Commander, which was fishing nearby and went to rescue the survivors. It arrived nearly 12 hours after the distress call and brought the crew aboard, Coast Guard spokeswoman Tara Molle said. Advertisement She said the crew was in good condition and was expected to arrive back in Honolulu later this week. Most longline fishing vessels in Hawaii use foreign crews with no U.S. work visas. The workers cannot legally enter the United States so they are required to live aboard their vessels for the duration of their contracts, often a year or two at a time. Most workers come from impoverished Southeast Asia and Pacific island nations and are paid between $300 and $600 dollars a month. The observer on the boat was part of a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration program that monitors the actions of commercial fishing crews at sea. Observers log data about catch, interactions with endangered species, vessel conditions and crew safety.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. NOAA officials said they could not identify the observer who was aboard the Princess Hawaii. The agency is working with the Coast Guard to determine what role the observer played in alerting authorities to the sinking, spokeswoman Jolene Lau said. A request for the NOAA observer's log from Sunday's Princess Hawaii voyage was denied. The Magnuson-Stevens Act states that "all observer information is confidential and may not be disclosed, subject to certain very narrow exceptions," said NOAA's Office of General Counsel Pacific Island Section Chief Frederick Tucher in an email.  "Observer information includes all information collected, observed, retrieved, or created by an observer." The boat was inspected by the Coast Guard in February, and no safety violations were found. It was in 10-foot (3-meter) seas with winds around 20 mph (32 kph) before it sank, authorities said. The Coast Guard said in the statement Sunday that it "called the registered owner, who confirmed the vessel had gone out early that morning to fish." The agency said Monday that it could not confirm the name of the owner or any information about the crew. According to NOAA permit records, the Princess Hawaii is owned by Holly Fishery LLC. The Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission lists the captain of both the Princess Hawaii and the Commander as Loc Nguyen of Honolulu. State commercial fishing license records show the two boats employ workers from Indonesia, Vietnam, and Kiribati. Advertisement Attempts to reach the owners Monday were unsuccessful. A call to the satellite phone aboard the Commander was answered, but the connection was bad and the man who answered hung up. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Lisa Friedman The Environmental Protection Agency is considering a major change to the way it assesses scientific work, a move that would severely restrict the research available to it when writing environmental regulations. Under the proposed policy, the agency would no longer consider scientific research unless the underlying raw data can be made public for other scientists and industry groups to examine. As a result, regulators crafting future rules would quite likely find themselves restricted from using some of the most consequential environmental research of recent decades, such as studies linking air pollution to premature deaths or work that measures human exposure to pesticides and other chemicals. The reason: These fields of research often require personal health information for thousands of individuals, who typically agree to participate only if the details of their lives are kept confidential.  The proposed new policy — the details of which are still being worked out — is championed by the E.P.A. administrator, Scott Pruitt, who has argued that releasing the raw data would let others test the scientific findings more thoroughly. “Mr. Pruitt believes that Americans deserve transparency,” said Liz Bowman, an E.P.A. spokeswoman.  Critics, though, say that Mr. Pruitt’s goal is not academic rigor, but to undermine much of the science that underpins modern environmental regulations governing clean water and clean air. Restricting the application of established science when crafting new E.P.A. rules could make it easier to weaken or repeal existing health regulations, these people say.  The proposal is “cloaked in all of these buzzwords, in all of the positive things that we want to be for: ‘science,’ ‘transparency,’” said Dr. Ivan Oransky, co-founder of Retraction Watch, an independent blog that monitors scientific journals and exposes errors and misconduct. While Dr. Oransky said he agreed that it was critical to hold the scientific process accountable, he said he believed Mr. Pruitt’s intent was to inject doubt into areas of public health where none exists. “Data he doesn’t like will get disqualified,” Dr. Oransky said. The pending E.P.A. policy would have implications for much of what the agency touches, whether it is new rules addressing climate change or regulations for pesticides and protecting children from lead paint.  “This affects every aspect of environmental protection in the United States,” said David Michaels, assistant secretary of labor for occupational safety and health under President Barack Obama. Mr. Michaels, now a professor at George Washington University, called the plan “weaponized transparency.” Opponents and supporters agree that the proposed new policy has its roots in the fossil fuel industry’s opposition to a groundbreaking 1993 Harvard University study that definitively linked polluted air to premature deaths. The “Six Cities” study, widely considered one of the most influential public health examinations ever conducted, tracked thousands of people for nearly two decades and ultimately formed the backbone of federal air pollution regulations.  In that study, which began in the mid-1970s, scientists signed confidentiality agreements so they could track the private medical and occupational histories of more than 22,000 individuals in six cities around the country. They combined that personal data with home air-quality data in order to study the link between chronic exposure to air pollution and mortality.  Academics aren’t typically required to turn over such private data when submitting studies for peer review by other specialists in the field, or for review and publication in scientific journals, which is the traditional way that this kind of research is evaluated. If academics were to turn over the raw data to be made available for public review, the agency would have to spend hundreds of millions of dollars, according to a federal estimate, to redact private information.  The bottom line, critics say, is that if the E.P.A. is limited to considering only studies in which the data is publicly available, the agency will have a narrower and incomplete body of research to draw on when considering regulations. “It sends a pretty chilling message to scientists that their work can’t be used or won’t be used,” said Sean Gallagher, a government relations officer with the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a nonprofit science advocacy organization. Mr. Pruitt laid out his plans for the new transparency policy in an interview last week with The Daily Caller, a conservative news site. The proposal is based on legislation named the Honest and Open New E.P.A. Science Treatment Act, also known as the Honest Act, a bill sponsored by Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican. The bill has failed to gain support in Congress for years despite having the support of the energy, manufacturing and chemical industries.  That legislation aimed to preclude the E.P.A. from using any studies that could not be independently reproduced. According to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group that tracks campaign finance data, versions of the bill have received support from Exxon Mobil, Peabody Energy, Koch Industries and the American Chemistry Council, which provides policy and research for major chemical companies including Arkema, DuPont and Monsanto. Mr. Smith, the sponsor of the stalled Congressional legislation, applauded the E.P.A.’s proposed move. “Our citizens have a right to see the data that the E.P.A. says justifies their regulations,” he said in a statement. He has argued that E.P.A. regulations in the past were justified by data that was impossible to verify independently. Industry lobbyists who welcome the proposed changes agreed with that assessment. “Peer reviews, and reviews in general, can tell you what you want them to tell you, depending on who is in charge of the department,” said Colin Woodall, senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association.  Mr. Woodall, who supported Mr. Smith’s bill as well as the proposed new E.P.A. policy, said he believed studies used under the Obama administration to support clean air regulations, protect national waterways and, in particular, target agriculture’s role in climate change, were flawed. If the underlying data were online, he said, industry groups could “go to our own scientists and say, ‘Can you confirm those conclusions are accurate?’” Opponents of the proposed E.P.A. policy say the effort all comes back to the fossil fuel industry’s decades-long frustration over the Six Cities study and a related one sponsored by the American Cancer Society. Those studies, which have been independently evaluated and have had their findings confirmed, underpinned the first Clean Air Act regulations on fine particulate matter. Based on the research, the E.P.A. in 1997 estimated the rule would prevent 15,000 premature deaths annually and hundreds of thousands of cases of asthma and bronchitis. “They didn’t like the regulation, so they tried to attack the science underlying the regulation,” said Mr. Gallagher of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He said the demand for transparency was in fact an effort to undermine scientific independence. “It has become very clear to us that this is not about science. This is a means to an end.” Since taking the helm of the E.P.A., Mr. Pruitt has clashed with the scientific community several times.  In October, the agency forbade three agency scientists from speaking about climate change at a conference on the health of the Narragansett Bay in Rhode Island. Shortly after that, Mr. Pruitt ruled that scientists who receive E.PA. grants would no longer be allowed to serve on the agency’s advisory boards, a move that effectively blocked more than a dozen academic researchers from providing expertise about the latest science as the E.P.A. considered regulations. Last year, more than 200 scientists left the agency, reflecting what many have described as frustration over Mr. Pruitt and President Donald Trump’s policies. Late last year, Mr. Pruitt also proposed holding public debates on the merits of scientific findings that indicate human activity is responsible for climate change — research that is widely accepted within the scientific community. That plan was thwarted by John F. Kelly, the president’s chief of staff.  Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered eight international climate talks.  @LFFriedman Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement 
MARCH 26, 2018
 
 Calling all visual thinkers: We are now accepting visual op-eds for publication in The New York Times Opinion section in print and online. Op-eds are opinion pieces written by outside contributors and published in The New York Times Opinion section. Visual op-eds are reported and researched opinion pieces that use visuals as the main way to convey your argument. These visuals can include graphics, data visualizations, photos, interactives, games, simulations, videos or something else entirely. You can create these visuals, supply them from a source or work with us to make them. We encourage you to consult “Tips for Aspiring Op-Ed Writers” before submitting. We accept visual opinion pieces on any topic, but we are prioritizing original visual ideas that cannot be told in any other format. Visual op-eds come in innumerable forms, but here are some examples: A long read with visual elements that are crucial to understanding the story, like “America’s Wildest Place Is Open for Business” A chart-based piece where the data is the entire point of the argument, like “Our Broken Economy, in One Simple Chart” A snappily written argument made through visuals and using our “tap essay” format, like “Automated Vehicles Can’t Save Cities” An argument made more understandable through video and design, like “What Trump’s Speech Says About His Mental Fitness” A vision of the future brought to life through 3D renderings, like “Penn Station, Reborn” A video game with a message, like “The Voter Suppression Trail” When submitting, please supply: A story summary. Keep this under 150 words. Focus on your argument and what readers will learn. A visual summary. Keep this under 150 words. Describe the visuals, including any data you intend to use. You can include sketches of your idea or links to visuals/data you intend to use, but please do not attach any datasets. You must have a clear sense of what the visuals will be and how they will be created. All submissions must be original and exclusive to The Times. We will not consider articles that have already been published, in any form, in print or online. Unfortunately, because the number of submissions is so large, we have to decline much material of value and interest, and cannot reply to all submissions. If you do not hear from us within three business days, please assume that we will not be able to use your article. You should then feel free to offer it elsewhere. Submissions should be sent by email to opinion@nytimes.com with “Visual Op-Ed” in the subject line. Advertisement
Advertisement Supported by By The Associated Press LONDON — Britain's anti-doping agency says it was targeted in a cyber-attack that did not comprise any data. While disclosing a weekend attack that was "affecting our systems," UK Anti-Doping said "no core activity, including our testing program, has been impacted." UKAD added it was "satisfied that we have appropriate levels of cyber security in place." The agency did not speculate on the source of the hacking attempt. The Russian-linked Fancy Bears group has previously obtained athlete information from the sports bodies including the World Anti-Doping Agency. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 7:55 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  A whistleblower at the heart of a Facebook data scandal on Monday questioned the result of Britain's 2016 Brexit referendum as his lawyers presented evidence that they said showed the main campaign for leaving the EU had broken the law. With just a year until Britain is due to leave the European Union, two whistleblowers - one from the British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica and one from the Vote Leave group - have alleged that Brexit campaigners funded their campaign illegally. By doing so, they have pulled Brexit into a scandal that has forced Mark Zuckerberg to apologise for how Facebook handled users' data, and raised questions about how Donald Trump's 2016 campaign employed data. Vote Leave officials on Monday denied breaking election rules and said they were facing an attempt to undermine Brexit by smearing their reputations. Advertisement The whistleblowers' law firm, London-based Bindmans, released 53 pages of selected evidence on Monday. Advertisement In a legal opinion, Bindmans said there was a prima facie case that Vote Leave broke election spending limits by donating to an allied group known as BeLeave, with which it was working closely. "Can we be confident in the result of the referendum?" said whistleblower Christopher Wylie, formerly of Cambridge Analytica. "This is not refighting the referendum. This is about the integrity of the democratic process."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "If this country is on the path of an irreversible decision, we really should be confident that the basis of that decision came from a free and fair vote - and what this evidence does is it calls into question whether it was free and fair." Reuters was unable to verify the allegations made against Vote Leave. Matthew Elliott, its former CEO, said the allegations were wrong. "Vote Leave did not break the law," Elliott told Reuters. "Voters can be confident this was a free and fair referendum." Elliott said the Electoral Commission had twice looked into Vote Leave's relationship with BeLeave and had given it a clean bill of health both times. He said he was confident that the third investigation would produce the same result. "The basis of all this is an attempt by people on the 'Remain' campaign to call into doubt the result of the EU referendum," Elliott said. (Reporting by Alistair Smout, writing by Guy Faulconbridge; Editing by Kevin Liffey) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
The Checkup  By                     
 PERRI KLASS, M.D.
 
MARCH 26, 2018
 A new study that found significant differences in the brains of preschoolers with symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder may help parents understand that extremes of behavior can reflect differences in biological “wiring.” Those who feel blamed — or blame themselves — for their small children’s behavioral issues will be likely to watch with interest as this long-term study progresses. “We wanted to understand some of the biological and behavioral differences we can start to observe early in life,” said Mark Mahone, the senior author of a study of brain development in preschool children with A.D.H.D., published Monday in the Journal of the International Neuropsychological Society. “Factors in our earlier work led us to think there may be some important changes in the brain happening in earlier life which may set the stage for the difficulties children have once they hit school.” Dr. Mahone, the director of the department of neuropsychology at Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore, and his colleagues did advanced brain scans on 90 4- and 5-year-old children. Of those, 52 had symptoms of A.D.H.D., and the other 38 were carefully matched controls, similar in age, gender, socioeconomic status, I.Q. and language function. The brains of the children with A.D.H.D. symptoms were significantly different than the brains of the control children, with “really widespread changes,” Dr. Mahone said. Advertisement Those changes included a smaller brain, over all, and reductions in the size of several specific regions, including the frontal lobes. “The magnitude of those reductions predicted how bad their A.D.H.D. symptomatology was,” Dr. Mahone said. “Something about what is happening in early life leads them to have differences in their brains even by age 4.” Advertisement It is more common for an A.D.H.D. diagnosis to be made when children have trouble in school, rather than in the preschool years. That’s partly because there are few demands for most 3-year-olds to sit still and focus, and it is considered developmentally normal to be somewhat rambunctious at that age. But often, parents and preschool teachers are aware of a child’s difficulty in paying attention before school age. Indeed, to meet the official criteria for the diagnosis, a child has to have problems in more than one setting. This is the first comprehensive study to have looked with M.R.I. scans at the brains of children as young as 4 with A.D.H.D. symptoms, Dr. Mahone said. James Griffin, the deputy chief of the child development and behavior branch of the National Institutes of Health, which supported the research, said that the results came as a surprise to the researchers, who had not expected such pronounced changes at such a young age. “What he found was that those differences were already well in place at age 4,” Dr. Griffin said. “That was a real surprise for him, that they were as large as they were and in the areas you would predict from parents’ reports of hyperactivity and attention issues.” Previous neuroimaging studies of older children from 6 to 16 have shown that the brains of children with A.D.H.D. look different, Dr. Mahone said, and studies on brain activity when people with A.D.H.D. are asked to accomplish specific tasks have shown that brain activation and blood flow look different. All of this has contributed to the understanding of the biological basis of A.D.H.D., and the complexity of it. “There are structural differences in brain volumes, there are connections between brain regions reflected in white matter changes in people with A.D.H.D., there are chemical changes in some of the major transmitter systems in the brain,” Dr. Mahone said. “When the brain is asked to do something, the brains of children with A.D.H.D. do the same task but the brain is less efficient.” None of the children in the study had ever taken any kind of medication for A.D.H.D., which is important, Dr. Mahone said, because questions have been raised in the past about whether having taken stimulant medications might have contributed to some of the brain differences seen in older children with A.D.H.D.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But what matters most is not so much what the brain looks like at any particular moment, Dr. Mahone said, but how the brain grows and changes; it’s the trajectory that needs to be understood, and which will help project future function and target help and interventions. By starting early and following these children, there will be a lot to learn about typical and atypical development. “We’re betting some of them are going to grow out of it,” he said, and will not eventually have the diagnosis. The matched controls will also be followed. “And some who don’t have symptoms at 4, may later on.” Advertisement This is a descriptive study, Dr. Griffin said, which looks at patterns in brain development, but cannot establish cause and effect. But with longitudinal studies, looking at these children’s brains as they change over time will be very important. Eventually, he said, we may be able to look at questions like, “if we had started a behavioral intervention at age 2, would we still see these changes?” “This is very much a biological disorder,” Dr. Mahone said, and it’s clearly possible to distinguish A.D.H.D. from normal 4-year-old behavior. “Very clear evidence of things happening differently in the brain helps us reinforce that this is a very real condition with onset very early in life.” Trying to identify it earlier and start behavioral interventions as early as possible, he said, may improve outcomes. “These children and their families are providing invaluable data that allow us to learn more about children with A.D.H.D. symptomology and atypical development as well as typical development,” Dr. Griffin said. “You have children with A.D.H.D. symptomology who have to be still in a scanner; this is not an insignificant undertaking and commitment on their part.” So how do you get 4- and 5-year-old kids, especially the ones who look hyperactive, to stay still for 40 minutes for a sophisticated brain scan? Dr. Mahone’s team brings the children in for practice sessions in a mock scanner, which looks and sounds just like a regular M.R.I. machine. If the child has trouble holding still, he or she can practice with a motion detector worn on the forehead, while watching a favorite movie, which goes off if the child moves. (For the real scans, they could watch the movie without the motion detector.) Also, Dr. Mahone said, the researchers took advantage of the children’s nap patterns. “We bring them in, we work with them in the morning, we send them off to lunch, tell parents, don’t let them nap, give them a great big lunch, then we scan them after lunch,” he said. “Sure enough, they’re out like a light, and we get great scans.” The article acknowledged that the need to stay still for the scans may mean that the study included only children with more moderate symptoms. Since studying the trajectory is so important, Dr. Mahone said he’s very grateful to the families who participated, and who will continue to participate as their children grow up into elementary school and beyond. “The children get a real kick out of doing this,” Dr. Mahone said. “They get a picture of their brain to take home. It’s a great big deal for them.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:46 P.M. E.D.T.
 ATLANTA —  Atlanta's mayor says the city continues to operate despite ongoing troubles caused by a cyberattack on its computer network last week. City officials announced Thursday that the city's computer network had been attacked by ransomware that encrypted some city data. Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said Monday the attack is an important reminder of the need to ensure that the city's digital infrastructure is secure and up to date. She says some city services are suspended and other city functions may be slow for a while because city workers have to do things manually rather than using their computers. Bottoms says the city is working around the clock with federal agency and private sector help. But she declined to say when she expects the network to be running normally. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributors By Gina McCarthy and Janet G. McCabe Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has announced that he alone will decide what is and isn’t acceptable science for the agency to use when developing policies that affect your health and the environment. It is his latest effort to cripple the agency. Mr. Pruitt, who as Oklahoma’s attorney general described himself as “a leading advocate against the E.P.A.’s activist agenda,” said in an interview published in The Daily Caller last week that he would no longer allow the agency to use studies that include nonpublic scientific data to develop rules to safeguard public health and prevent pollution. Opponents of the agency and of mainstream climate science call these studies “secret science.” But that’s simply not true. Peer review ensures that the analytic methodologies underlying studies funded by the agency are sound. Some of those studies, particularly those that determine the effects of exposure to chemicals and pollution on health, rely on medical records that by law are confidential because of patient privacy policies. These studies summarize the analysis of raw data and draw conclusions based on that analysis. Other government agencies also use studies like these to develop policy and regulations, and to buttress and defend rules against legal challenges. They are, in fact, essential to making sound public policy. The agency also relies on industry data to develop rules on chemical safety that is often kept confidential for business reasons. For instance, foundational epidemiological research into the effects of air pollution on health by scientists at Harvard and the American Cancer Society established a clear connection between exposure to fine particles and increased mortality. This research led to further studies that supported the development of air quality standards and rules requiring industry to reduce pollution, improving health and reducing costs for millions of Americans. Yet, because the personal health data associated with individuals participating in the studies were obtained with guarantees of confidentiality, Mr. Pruitt apparently would have argued for those studies to be tossed out had he been at the helm then. The E.P.A. administrator simply can’t make determinations on what science is appropriate in rule-making without calling into question decisions by other federal agencies based on similar kinds of studies, including on the safety and efficacy of pharmaceuticals, and research into cancer and other diseases. All rely to some extent on data from individual health records. If one agency rejects studies based on that sort of data, it could open up policies by other agencies based on similar studies to challenge. Mr. Pruitt — who is a lawyer, not a scientist — told The Daily Caller: “We need to make sure their data and methodology are published as part of the record. Otherwise, it’s not transparent. It’s not objectively measured, and that’s important.” We don’t have the details of the new policy. But don’t be fooled by this talk of transparency. He and some conservative members of Congress are setting up a nonexistent problem in order to prevent the E.P.A. from using the best available science. These studies adhere to all professional standards and meet every expectation of the scientific community in terms of peer review and scientific integrity. In the case of the air pollution studies, a rigorous follow-up examination was done by the Health Effects Institute, a nonprofit research group that studies air pollution. The institute corroborated the findings. In taking this action, Mr. Pruitt appears to be adopting the policies of the Honest and Open New E.P.A. Science Treatment Act, a bill aimed at the agency. Conservative lawmakers have tried to pass versions of this bill before to shackle the agency’s rule making. That law would prohibit the E.P.A. from taking any action “unless all scientific and technical information relied on to support” it is “specifically identified, and publicly available in a manner sufficient for independent analysis and substantial reproduction of research results.” An analysis of a similar bill introduced in 2015 by the Congressional Budget Office estimated it would cost $250 million a year over the first few years to carry out because it would require new “data collection, correspondence and coordination with study authors, construction of a database to house necessary information, and public dissemination” of the information. The analysis, which did not appear to take into account the cost of redacting details like trade secrets or personally identifiable medical information, also predicted the agency would reduce by half the number of studies it relies on in developing policies and regulations because of the cost of complying with the law. “The quality of the agency’s work would be compromised if that work relies on a significantly smaller collection of scientific studies,” the analysis found. This approach would undermine the nation’s scientific credibility. And should Mr. Pruitt reconsider regulations now in place, this new policy could be a catalyst for the unraveling of existing public health protections if the studies used to justify them could no longer be used by E.P.A. So why would he want to prohibit his own agency from using these studies? It’s not a mystery. Time and again the Trump administration has put the profits of regulated industries over the health of the American people. Fundamental research on the effects of air pollution on public health has long been a target of those who oppose the E.P.A.’s air quality regulations, like the rule that requires power plants to reduce their mercury emissions. Mr. Pruitt’s goal is simple: No studies, no data, no rules. No climate science, for instance, means no climate policy. If a tree falls in the forest, we know it makes a sound, even if people aren’t there to hear it. When people are exposed to mercury, lead or other air- and waterborne pollutants, we know their health is affected, whether or not E.P.A. is allowed to use the scientific studies that confirm those health impacts. This policy no doubt will become a matter of litigation. It will be interesting to hear the agency defend Mr. Pruitt’s view that peer-reviewed studies that meet every standard for proper scientific method and integrity should not be considered in drafting policies and regulations that regulate threats to the environment. Representative Bill Foster, a physicist and Democrat from Illinois, has argued that “scientists should set the standards for research, not politicians.” We couldn’t agree more. Scientific research provides factual support for policies that reduce exposure to pollution and protect the American people from costly and dangerous illnesses and premature deaths. Under Mr. Pruitt’s approach to science, the E.P.A. would be turning its back on its mandate to “protect human health and the environment.” Gina McCarthy was the E.P.A. administrator from 2013 to 2017. Janet G. McCabe was acting assistant administrator of the E.P.A’s Office of Air and Radiation from 2013 to 2017. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionThomas H. Kean Opinion Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:59 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Mark Zuckerberg might want to delete the last ten days from his timeline and everyone else's. In a little more than a week, Facebook has turned from one of the market's darlings to a stock investors are running from. Facebook has dropped 13.5 percent after allegations a political consulting firm working for the Trump campaign got data inappropriately from millions of Facebook users. On Monday the Federal Trade Commission said it's investigating the social media giant's privacy practices and legislators in the U.S. and the U.K. have demanded answers and called for inquiries. Facebook stock tumbled as much as 6.5 percent Monday, but finished with a small gain as the broader market surged. The slide has wiped out $73 billion of Facebook's value. That's about as much as the entire company was worth in 2012, the year it went public. Facebook's first trading day was beset by glitches and its first year on the market was rocky, but for the last four and a half years it had enjoyed an enormous run of success. Before the recent drop investors valued Facebook at more than $500 billion, which made it the fifth most valuable company in the U.S. It now ranks sixth, right behind Warren Buffet's Berkshire Hathaway. Advertisement But the scandal over Facebook's handling of data comes after the company was criticized for becoming a conduit of fake news and propaganda from Russian-linked trolls disrupting the 2016 presidential election. The company eventually acknowledged those problems just as it vowed to do better after the most recent scandal. But Facebook is facing a new kind of crisis, with angry users who can delete their accounts, advertisers who might not want to buy as many ads, and governments who might punish the company or regulate it in a way it's never been regulated before. Advertisement The stock is trading at its lowest price since July, and it's fallen 17.1 percent since it set a record high Feb. 1. That's perilously close to the 20 percent mark that Wall Street deems a "bear market," an especially severe drop. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 6:17 A.M. E.D.T.
 Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. UNITED ARAB EMIRATES ADVISER SECRETLY BACKED ABU DHABI'S AGENDA IN CONGRESS George Nader wired $2.5 million to a Trump fundraiser, money then used to bankroll an effort to persuade U.S. lawmakers to take a hard line against UAE-rival Qatar, an AP investigation finds. 2. IMPACT OF TRUMP'S REFUGEE POLICIES DIFFER DRASTICALLY In U.S. cities with large refugee populations, the reality can be decidedly different for neighbors, the result of Trump administration policies that sort people by nationality and, by extension, religion. 3. WHAT STORMY DANIELS SAYS ABOUT SEXUAL ENCOUNTER The adult film star tells CBS' "60 Minutes" she was threatened to keep silent about an alleged tryst with Trump in 2006. 4. SUPREME COURT TAKES UP 2ND MAJOR PARTISAN REDISTRICTING CASE Justices are weighing a political line-drawing case in Maryland, which may offer fresh clues to what they think about partisan gerrymandering. Advertisement 5. NOT MUCH SUSPENSE IN EGYPTIAN ELECTION Critics view the absence of a serious challenger to President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi as a signal of the country's return to the authoritarian rule that prevailed since the 1950s. Advertisement 6. RUSSIAN SHOPPING MALL FIRE KILLS 64 With fire alarms silent and staff reportedly nowhere to be seen, a fire at a mall packed with children and their parents kills dozens in Siberia.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 7. UPCOMING EU DATA RULES MAY HAVE GLOBAL IMPACT A similar data breach by Facebook in the future could make the social network liable for fines of more than $1.6 billion. 8. WHOSE REMAINS ARE RETURNING HOME Seventy-four years after Frank Fazekas Sr.'s fighter aircraft crashed into a French beet field, the remains of the American pilot have been discovered and will be buried at Arlington. 9. EXPERTS BULLISH ON ECONOMY Economists are expressing optimism that tax cuts and increased government spending will accelerate economic growth over the next two years. 10. CHALK AND 1 UPSTART The Final Four features favorites in Villanova, Kansas and Michigan along with surprising 11-seed Loyola-Chicago. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »

        PAID POST
        Studies have shown that passion-driven businesses tend to be the most successful. Virgin’s Richard Branson famously remarked: “When you believe in something, the force of your convictions will spark other people’s interest and motivate them to help you achieve your goals. This is essential to success.” For those looking for a place to launch a new business concept, where better than Singapore? The city-state boasts an enviable quality of life and a motivated, diverse and skilled talent pool. It’s also a great launchpad into the rest of Asia. Furthermore, in recent years, Singapore has ambitiously prepared itself for a digital-first world by installing smart infrastructure islandwide and rolling out a slew of business incentives. Its mix of homegrown and foreign entrepreneurs are reaping the returns, pursuing their passions and innovating novel business concepts. As the following four entrepreneurs in travel, technology, design and logistics can attest, whatever your passion is, possibilities await you in Singapore. The journalist Yeoh Siew Hoon turns her passions for tech, travel and communication into live events. In 2005, a Malaysian travel editor working in Singapore discerned that the internet was going to fundamentally revolutionize the face of travel. “I could tell it would change consumer behavior,” says Yeoh Siew Hoon, who describes herself as a travel and tech enthusiast with a passion for storytelling. “The timing was right for someone to curate content about how technology was going to impact the way we travel.” So she quit her job and joined forces with a fellow journalist from Australia to launch the first Web In Travel (WIT) trade conference in Singapore that year. “A WIT conference is a gathering of travel business professionals who want to talk about how technology has changed travel, from how consumers book to how they want to experience their trips,” she explains. Oct. 15 to 17, 2018 Take the pulse of the latest travel innovations, and meet travel and tech enthusiasts from the Asia Pacific. “Digital has changed the way travelers behave and Asia is a living breathing laboratory. WIT has made it easier for travel entrepreneurs to network, collaborate and learn from each other. Singapore is a small place, so it’s easier to have a close-knit community.” Yeoh Siew Hoon Web In Travel With the highest percentage of the population with internet access in Southeast Asia, Singapore was the natural choice. In the 13 years since, Yeoh has overseen the growth of WIT, which now holds conferences in cities including Seoul, Tokyo, Amsterdam and Hong Kong. “From the start, we wanted WIT to be a regional and global event, and Singapore is a very good place for that,” she says, adding that the past seven or eight years have seen the government placing a greater emphasis on the technology sector. “It is an easy place to do business, very accessible, and many travelers come here, including a growing pool of investors. That’s why you see so many tech start-ups now.” WIT explores cutting-edge themes such as the impact of artificial intelligence on travel, while making sure that independent business owners can derive practical benefits. “The majority of the industry is made up of small businesses, so we have to keep it real to help them compete in a world of giants,” Yeoh says. WIT hosts events for tech start-ups, connecting entrepreneurs with potential investors and mentors to help them scale up their businesses. For Yeoh, travel is more than just a personal passion. “Tourism has the ability to enrich local communities and bring them out of poverty,” she says, noting that as technology advances, travelers are paradoxically seeking out even more intimate, authentic and local experiences. And because of that, she says, “WIT’s journey is only just beginning.” Web In Travel  In brief: WIT’s focus on travel and tech, coupled with its initiatives like the WIT Bootcamp and Startup Pitch competition, helps budding local businesses find success. With a focus on the Asia Pacific, WIT explores the impact technology has on how we travel. Even as travel becomes increasingly high-tech, travelers still crave intimate experiences that are full of local flavor. WIT brings together the movers and shakers in the tech, travel and hospitality worlds to spark ideas. One in four Singaporeans uses Carousell, a mobile platform where users buy, sell or trade used and new items. It’s the brainchild of Quek Siu Rui, who wants to breathe new life into underutilized stuff. Carousell is the marriage of its founder Quek Siu Rui’s passions for tech and community. In 2011, Quek found himself in Silicon Valley as part of a university exchange program. “My two co-founders and I fell in love with technology for its ability to make a huge impact on a lot of people’s lives,” he says. “So we started learning how to build apps.” The trio was determined to create an app that added value to the community, so they looked for a problem to solve. “We had all these things at home like our Kindles, our GoPros, old MacBooks that were just collecting dust, even though they were fully functional,” says Quek. Before, he would list these items on online classified sites like eBay, but the process was cumbersome and tedious. “What if we could streamline it to 30 seconds?” May 15 and 16, 2018 This two-day conference brings together entrepreneurs, investors, corporations, developers and students to learn about the start-up community. “In places like Silicon Valley, it can be hard, if you’re not affiliated to a big incubator or accelerator, to cut through the clutter and the noise. In Singapore, you can focus on developing a great product.” Quek Siu Rui Carousell So the three friends set themselves the challenge of creating an app that would make “online selling as easy as taking a photo, and buying as easy as chatting.” In May 2012, they moved into a former light factory called BLK 71 in southwest Singapore. The building was converted into a co-working space — a government experiment to foster the country’s tech start-up scene. The cluster has since expanded into three blocks and is known as JTC LaunchPad @ one-north. The Economist dubbed it the “world’s most tightly packed entrepreneurial ecosystem.” Today, Quek’s 200-strong team comes from 19 countries, which he says “is only possible because of the critical mass of start-up opportunities here.” In August the same year, Quek and his partners launched Carousell. Users upload photos of whatever they’re selling on the app and provide a short description with an asking price. Buyers can negotiate the final price, mode of delivery and payment method. Quek notes that active users spend an average of 15 to 16 minutes every day on it. Riding on the app’s success in Singapore, he has rolled out the concept in other Asian markets like Malaysia, Indonesia, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Quek credits his success to a supportive start-up ecosystem in Singapore. “It’s more than just a physical working space,” he says, citing strong government support that was crucial to the early stages of his business. Enthusiasm is also evident in the private sector, too. “If you look at the past two years or so, at least a dozen venture-capital funds with $50 million to $100 million have started in Singapore.”  Carousell  In brief: Singapore’s technology infrastructure and abundance of start-up hubs make it conducive to testbed innovative concepts. The 2017 Global Startup Ecosystem Report by Startup Genome, a U.S.-based organization, ranked Singapore the global leader in start-up talent. First: The staff of Carousell comes from 19 countries. Second: Quek Siu Rui has developed a mobile app that streamlines the way people buy, sell and trade items online. By pursuing his love of art and design, Jackson Tan has helped shape the voice of Singapore’s creative scene. “I was inspired by my childhood memories of going to the zoo and playing in animal-themed playgrounds,” says Jackson Tan, as he jumps on one of his newest creations, a giant cartoon coral reef inflatable. It’s part of Art Zoo, an immersive artistic installation commissioned by the government for the i Light Marina Bay, an annual festival featuring sustainable light-based artworks and installations around Singapore’s southern waterfront. To say this homegrown multidisciplinary designer has helped shape Singapore’s visual identity is not an understatement. Three years ago, Tan created the “SG50” logo that could be seen everywhere on the island as the nation celebrated its 50-year jubilee. The clean design features “SG50” set against a red dot, a cheeky moniker for the tiny island-state that is Singapore. Held in March annually Thought leaders from the design, business and public policy worlds gather to spark ideas to address the key issues facing society. “After DesignSingapore was set up, Singapore started to focus on design as more than a support for manufacturing. There is now more funding for projects that use design as a force to shape culture and identity.” Jackson Tan Black While Tan chose the Gotham typeface for the logo, it was fonts with names like Acid Queen that gave him his start in the design industry. The year was 1994, the internet was new and it opened a whole new world to the young aspiring designer. Inspired by magazines like Andy Warhol’s Interview and David Carson’s Ray Gun, Tan and his friends experimented with their own fonts, sending their creations to the typeface-design studio co-founded by Carson, GarageFonts, which licensed them. “We didn’t have real clients, we just loved designing,” he remembers. In 2003, he founded his own creative agency, Black. Over the years, Tan has witnessed the growing sophistication of his country’s design scene. “Previous generations thought of design as a service, but now we’re thinking of design beyond commercial purposes and as a force that shapes culture and identity,” he says, crediting the establishment of DesignSingapore, a government organization that awards grants to design-led initiatives and companies, for this change. “Singaporeans are confident to tell the stories of Singapore to the rest of the world.” He’s also come to appreciate the cultural and ethnic diversity that sets Singapore apart as a design hub and as a place to launch a design business in Asia. Alongside the three main races in Singapore — Chinese, Malays and Indians — nearly one in three people in the country was born elsewhere. “What’s unique about Singaporeans, one that I didn’t realize until recently, is that we can plug into any single culture, anywhere,” he says, adding that many businesses have their regional headquarters in the city. “It’s a good place to launch projects that reach diverse audiences.” After a successful rollout last year, Tan introduced Art Zoo to Taiwan, much to the delight of kids and adults alike. Black  In brief: Singapore’s diverse blend of cultures, global outlook and position as regional business hub provide the conditions for design businesses to thrive in Asia.  Jackson Tan and his team create designs that have global resonance while retaining a Singapore flavor. Designing inflatables for ArtZoo. Tan designed the SG50 logo for Singapore’s 50-year jubilee. Across Southeast Asia, millions of e-commerce customers receive parcels delivered by red “Ninja Vans” every month. Meet the mastermind, Lai Chang Wen, who is determined to transform the logistics industry. As far as passions go, a love for logistics is as rare as it gets. “I’d be lying if I say that logistics is my passion,” says Lai Chang Wen, laughing. In 2014, the 31-year-old founded the courier company Ninja Van, which runs an extensive network of delivery vehicles in 426 cities across six Southeast Asian countries. “My passion, however, is in solving problems.” The need to scratch a problematic itch led to the birth of Ninja Van. Lai, a former trader for Barclays, had previously launched a custom-tailoring start-up called Marcella. “I realized how expensive and inconvenient it was for small businesses to ship their products,” he recalls. “I thought I could fix it.” He sold Marcella, rolled up his sleeves and got down to finding a solution. July 11 and 12, 2018 The annual affair is a networking platform that draws hundreds of logistics professionals in the region to share knowledge, trends and developments in the sector. “Foreign clients definitely trust you a lot more when they know you’re a Singapore company. They know you’ll get things done. You don’t oversell, and so there’s a certain level of trust when they’re dealing with a Singapore company.” Lai Chang Wen Ninja Van Ninja Vans are outfitted with GPS tracking so customers and suppliers can track shipments in real time, but Lai says that “providing real-time information isn’t everything.” The majority of shipments in Southeast Asia come from small businesses that “suffer the biggest pain points,” he adds. “Instead of making them travel to the post office to deliver a parcel, we should give them the same level of optionality as customers, just like calling an Uber, but at a postal courier price.” To achieve that, Ninja Vans make short trips to even the most rural of Southeast Asian locations for pickup or delivery before linking up to larger, more cost-efficient regional hubs. “At scale, data gives great insights; we’ll learn the best routes over time,” he says. From his Singapore headquarters, Lai has swiftly scaled up across the region, partnering with e-tailers like Zalora, Lazada and Shopee, and hiring a thousand full-time staff. The breakneck pace of Ninja Van’s expansion is powered by the firm’s smart use of data. “Automating intuition makes operations on a massive scale possible,” he explains. “Most of the steps are made by the computer, and you equip people with basic skills.” Lai says entrepreneurs enjoy easy access to financing and talents in Singapore. Among Ninja Van’s investors is the European delivery company DPDgroup. The company also  receives financial advice from Goldman Sachs Singapore. “Singapore is a very easy place to start a business because of the legal infrastructure. You can get something legitimately up properly, experiment fast and move quickly,” he sums up. Ninja Van  In brief: As a launchpad into Asia, Singapore provides easy access to capital and is a conducive market to test drive new operation solutions before a swift rollout in other countries. In August 2017, the government launched the new EntrePass scheme, making it easier for talented and innovative tech start-up entrepreneurs to settle in Singapore.  First: The Ninja Van team ensures smooth delivery of millions of parcels every month. Second: A Ninja Van leaving a distribution hub in Singapore. Discover a nation of possibilities. Create business possibilities. The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 11:19 A.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  The average Wall Street bonus rose 17 percent to $184,220 in 2017, according to a report released on Monday by New York state's chief fiscal officer. The securities industry averaged 176,900 jobs in New York City last year, down slightly after three straight years of gains. Employment in the industry, a key component of the city's economy, remains 6 percent smaller than before the financial crisis in 2007. Profits for the broker-dealer operations of New York Stock Exchange member firms meanwhile jumped 42 percent to $24.5 billion, the highest level since 2010, driven by growth in wealth management fees, underwriting and M&A advisory fees, the report said. Advertisement "It is too soon to tell how increased volatility in the financial markets might impact profits in 2018," New York state Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli said in the report. The report is based on tax withholding data and does not include stock options or other forms of deferred compensation. Advertisement (Reporting by Reade Levinson; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:10 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  The leading U.S. consumer protection regulator and attorneys representing 37 states stepped up pressure on Facebook Inc on Monday to explain how the social network allowed data of 50 million users get into the hands of a political consultancy. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission took the unusual step of announcing that it had opened an investigation into the company - which it generally only does in cases of great public interest - citing media reports that raise what it called "substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook." On the same day, a bipartisan coalition of 37 state attorneys wrote to Facebook, demanding to know more about the company's role in the manipulation of users' data by the consultancy, Cambridge Analytica, which used it to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections. “These revelations raise many serious questions concerning Facebook’s policies and practices, and the processes in place to ensure they are followed,” the letter said. "We need to know that users can trust Facebook. With the information we have now, our trust has been broken.” Advertisement Facebook shares fell as much as 6.5 percent, briefly dipping below $150 for the first time since July 2017, before recovering the day's losses to close up 0.4 percent at $160.06. Advertisement The shares are still down 13 percent since March 16, when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channelled to Cambridge Analytica. The company has lost more than $70 billion (£49.1 billion) in market value since then. The recovery in Facebook's stock on Monday may have been due to investors taking advantage of the lower stock price and the belief that the latest regulatory scrutiny may not ultimately hurt the company's relative long-term growth prospects, Wall Street analysts said. The FTC investigation is looking at more than whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent order it reached with the FTC over its privacy practices, a person briefed on the matter told Reuters. If the FTC finds Facebook violated terms of the consent decree, it has the power to fine it thousands of dollars a day per violation, which could add up to billions of dollars. “We remain strongly committed to protecting people’s information," Facebook Deputy Chief Privacy Officer Rob Sherman said in a statement on Monday. "We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the FTC may have.” ALL APOLOGIES Lawmakers in the United States and Europe continue to pressure Facebook and Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg to explain the company's privacy practices. The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee said on Monday it had invited Zuckerberg and the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy. Advertisement The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee have already formally asked Zuckerberg to appear at a congressional hearing.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Facebook's failure to protect confidential user information likely violated specific legally binding commitments, but also basic norms and standards," said U.S. Democratic Senator Richard Blumenthal, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. In Europe, the European Union Justice Commissioner asked  Facebook if the company is "absolutely certain" that the Cambridge Analytica incident could not be repeated. Zuckerberg apologised last week for the mistakes the company had made and he promised to restrict developers' access to user information as part of a plan to protect privacy. He also said sorry in full-page advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers. "The was a breach of trust, and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time," Zuckerberg said in the ads. "We are now taking steps to make sure this doesn't happen again." 'FUTURE REGULATION' His apologies have failed to quell discontent. Germany's justice minister said Facebook's promises were not enough. "In future we will have to regulate companies like Facebook much more strictly," Katarina Barley said after talks to which she summoned Facebook executives including European public affairs chief Richard Allan. Advertisers and users are also unhappy. U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys suspended all advertising on Facebook on Monday while wireless speaker maker Sonos said in a blog post it will remove advertising from Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Alphabet's YouTube for one week. Internet company Mozilla Corp, Germany's second-largest bank Commerzbank AG and British advertising group ISBA all suspended advertising on Facebook last week. Advertisement Opinion polls published on Sunday in the United States and Germany cast doubt over the trust people have in Facebook. Fewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey U.S. privacy laws, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday, while a survey published by Bild am Sonntag, Germany’s largest-selling Sunday paper, found 60 percent of Germans fear that Facebook and other social networks are having a negative impact on democracy. (Reporting by David Shepardson; Writing by Bill Rigby; Editing by Susan Thomas) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:11 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  The leading U.S. consumer protection regulator and attorneys representing 37 states stepped up pressure on Facebook Inc on Monday to explain how the social network allowed data of 50 million users get into the hands of a political consultancy. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission took the unusual step of announcing that it had opened an investigation into the company - which it generally only does in cases of great public interest - citing media reports that raise what it called "substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook." On the same day, a bipartisan coalition of 37 state attorneys wrote to Facebook, demanding to know more about the company's role in the manipulation of users' data by the consultancy, Cambridge Analytica, which used it to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections. “These revelations raise many serious questions concerning Facebook’s policies and practices, and the processes in place to ensure they are followed,” the letter said. "We need to know that users can trust Facebook. With the information we have now, our trust has been broken.” Advertisement Facebook shares fell as much as 6.5 percent, briefly dipping below $150 for the first time since July 2017, before recovering the day's losses to close up 0.4 percent at $160.06. Advertisement The shares are still down 13 percent since March 16, when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled to Cambridge Analytica. The company has lost more than $70 billion in market value since then. The recovery in Facebook's stock on Monday may have been due to investors taking advantage of the lower stock price and the belief that the latest regulatory scrutiny may not ultimately hurt the company's relative long-term growth prospects, Wall Street analysts said. The FTC investigation is looking at more than whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent order it reached with the FTC over its privacy practices, a person briefed on the matter told Reuters. If the FTC finds Facebook violated terms of the consent decree, it has the power to fine it thousands of dollars a day per violation, which could add up to billions of dollars. “We remain strongly committed to protecting people’s information," Facebook Deputy Chief Privacy Officer Rob Sherman said in a statement on Monday. "We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the FTC may have.” ALL APOLOGIES Lawmakers in the United States and Europe continue to pressure Facebook and Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg to explain the company's privacy practices. The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee said on Monday it had invited Zuckerberg and the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy. Advertisement The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee have already formally asked Zuckerberg to appear at a congressional hearing.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Facebook's failure to protect confidential user information likely violated specific legally binding commitments, but also basic norms and standards," said U.S. Democratic Senator Richard Blumenthal, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. In Europe, the European Union Justice Commissioner asked  Facebook if the company is "absolutely certain" that the Cambridge Analytica incident could not be repeated. Zuckerberg apologized last week for the mistakes the company had made and he promised to restrict developers' access to user information as part of a plan to protect privacy. He also said sorry in full-page advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers. "The was a breach of trust, and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time," Zuckerberg said in the ads. "We are now taking steps to make sure this doesn't happen again." 'FUTURE REGULATION' His apologies have failed to quell discontent. Germany's justice minister said Facebook's promises were not enough. "In future we will have to regulate companies like Facebook much more strictly," Katarina Barley said after talks to which she summoned Facebook executives including European public affairs chief Richard Allan. Advertisers and users are also unhappy. U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys suspended all advertising on Facebook on Monday while wireless speaker maker Sonos said in a blog post it will remove advertising from Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Alphabet's YouTube for one week. Internet company Mozilla Corp, Germany's second-largest bank Commerzbank AG and British advertising group ISBA all suspended advertising on Facebook last week. Advertisement Opinion polls published on Sunday in the United States and Germany cast doubt over the trust people have in Facebook. Fewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey U.S. privacy laws, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday, while a survey published by Bild am Sonntag, Germany’s largest-selling Sunday paper, found 60 percent of Germans fear that Facebook and other social networks are having a negative impact on democracy. (Reporting by David Shepardson; Writing by Bill Rigby; Editing by Susan Thomas) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Front Burner  By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
MARCH 26, 2018
 You need one or more big spoons in the kitchen. But a fork? Usually kitchen forks are two-pronged and fairly narrow, meant for lifting a hunk of meat or poultry or to assist with carving. This new big utility fork fills a void. It’s useful not for spearing but for mixing, mashing and stirring, and for making pastry, scrambled eggs or even guacamole. The material is heat-resistant silicone. You won’t let it out of your sight: Ultimate Fork, $9.95, surlatable.com. Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Use: One Giant Fork That Does It All.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Front Burner  By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
MARCH 26, 2018
 There are plenty of big, overloaded, chunky cookies out there, but Bang Cookies, in Jersey City, takes the genre a step further. The company’s new line of big, overloaded, chunky cookies has fillings. And they are delicious. The chocolate cookie-covered strawberry jam one, oozing preserves, was the winner. There’s another cookie filled with peanut butter and jelly, and a caramel sea salt chocolate flavor with a gooey center: Stuffed cookies, $5.50 each, regular cookies in nine flavors, $4.50 to $5, bangcookies.com. Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Enjoy: Chunky and Gooey Is How They Crumble.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:02 P.M. E.D.T.
 As questions mounted last year about whether Facebook had been exploited to tilt the U.S. presidential election, Mark Zuckerberg's to-do list landed him on a fishing trawler off Alabama's Gulf coast. But the chatter surrounding the CEO's arrival in port was that it signaled something bigger than just the start of a 30-state personal tour: his designs on a job even more powerful than leading the social network that links 2.2 billion people worldwide. "It was one of the last things I asked him, thinking it would put a smile on his face — and it did," said Dominick Ficarino, who owns a shrimp business in Bayou La Batre, Alabama, and hosted a dockside lunch for Zuckerberg that Sunday afternoon. "I asked him if he was interested in running for president of the United States. And his answer to me was: 'Can I answer you with a question? If you were me, would you?'" Advertisement Thirteen months later, Zuckerberg no longer has the luxury of mulling a hypothetical next act. Instead, he is grappling with a crisis that has enveloped the company synonymous with his face and name. It does not help that the most glaring reminder of Facebook's flaws is the unabated uproar over the American presidency itself. Advertisement "The world feels anxious and divided, and Facebook has a lot of work to do," Zuckerberg wrote in January, laying out the "personal challenge" that he sets for himself each year. In 2017, the billionaire challenged himself to travel to every state he'd never visited. This year, long after critics began demanding an overhaul, Zuckerberg said his personal goal is to "fix" the platform that he has engineered to build community — but that is increasingly blamed for warping it. Yet things continue to get worse. Scrutiny of Facebook has intensified following reports that it failed to prevent the data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica from amassing personal information about millions of users — possibly used to aid Donald Trump's campaign — and that the social network has been collecting Android users' phone call and text message histories without notice. That adds to criticism that Facebook manipulates its users and has allowed Russian bots to divide Americans by spreading false information. On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission announced it was investigating Facebook for its privacy practices. Throughout the mounting crisis, Zuckerberg's response has been a study in contradictions. He crisscrossed the country, even as his company back home came under increasing fire. He preaches transparency, but flinches at questioning and craves privacy. He is undeniably brilliant, but stubborn in his reluctance to acknowledge the extent of Facebook's problems. Even his critics say he is uniquely capable of righting the ship. But at 33, is he prepared to do all it will take? "If he fails to do it, it may take a while but eventually people are going to rebel," said Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor and adviser who has become one of the company's most pointed critics. Advertisement "I thought Facebook was a force for good in the world for a really long time," McNamee said. "I think it's really hard to make that case today." ___ Days after Trump's election, Zuckerberg was pressed on the possibility that foreign agents had used his social network to divide voters. "The idea that fake news on Facebook ... influenced the election in any way, I think, is a pretty crazy idea," the CEO told the audience at a California technology conference. "I think all of us were shocked to learn how wrong he was," said David Kirkpatrick, the author of a 2010 book about Facebook who questioned Zuckerberg that day. "You can certainly say that he was culpable, in that he was naive and inattentive to what was happening in his system. But I don't think he was lying." Zuckerberg walked back the remark soon after, continuing a years-long routine of self-correction. But errors that reflect his stubbornness, those who know him say, are tempered by an eagerness to learn from mistakes and a deep sense of reflection. Donald Graham, the former chairman of the Washington Post Co., recalled that when he met Zuckerberg in 2005, outsiders still weren't sure what to make of Facebook. "I would ask him a question and he would pause long enough — 15 seconds, 20 seconds — that I would think 'Did I insult him? Did he not hear me?'" said Graham, who went on to serve on the company's board from 2008 to 2015. "Since I am from Washington, I'm not used to people thinking before they are answering a question. ... But Mark, then as now, was thinking about the right answer." Advertisement Zuckerberg's boyish appearance, even today, is a reminder of just how young he was when he created what would become the world's biggest social network, back in his dorm room at Harvard. "I didn't know anything about building a company or global internet service," he wrote in January. "Over the years I've made almost every mistake you can imagine." Naomi Gleit, Facebook's longest-serving employee after the CEO, said Zuckerberg — who declined an interview request from The Associated Press — has been talking about making the world a better place since he was 21. But his view of that world and his place in it "seemed almost like a gravity, a burden of responsibility," she said. That seriousness coincides with a sense of certainty. Gleit recalled Zuckerberg's steadfast attachment to a Facebook message service similar to email, even as more people began using phones to send text messages. But co-workers eventually swayed the CEO, who she described as a "learn-it-all." That change-of-mind informed Facebook's 2014 purchase of the WhatsApp messaging service for $19 billion. "I think he would even say now that he was initially wrong," Gleit said. With Zuckerberg, "its experiment, learn, experiment, learn," said LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, who has known him since 2004. Hoffman said that is evident in Zuckerberg's enthusiasm for software, which can be overwritten to fix problems. That facility, he said, makes Zuckerberg the equal of executives with far more experience. But in the process of learning, Zuckerberg's inexperience has sometimes played out in public view. ___ In 2010, Zuckerberg announced on Oprah Winfrey's television show that he would donate $100 million to schools in Newark, New Jersey. Critics labeled it an attempt to polish his image, just as the biopic "The Social Network" was being released. Still, there was little questioning his generosity. The problem was that Zuckerberg — who knew little about education — made the gift with few specifics outlining how it should be spent. Advertisement "He was just a very young, naive, inexperienced guy who was brilliant at technology and computers and the internet, but just really didn't know much about how the world worked," said Dale Russakoff, author of "The Prize," a book chronicling how the money went to high-priced consultants, with minimal effort by leaders to build community support. By the end of the process, Zuckerberg had developed a clearer understanding of how to get things done. He and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, have since chartered their own foundation and structured it to take on mammoth goals, like a $3 billion investment to cure, prevent or manage all diseases. He has pledged to donate 99 percent of his Facebook stock to philanthropy. "Zuck's maturation has occurred in front of the public," said Kirkpatrick, author of "The Facebook Effect: The Inside Story of the Company that Is Connecting the World." ''But he also still lives with the consequences of the decisions he made when he was less mature." At Facebook, Zuckerberg has grown increasingly bold in using huge sums of money to pursue corporate goals, which includes purchasing competitors — or companies that could grow into competitors.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Facebook's $1 billion purchase of Instagram in 2012 — then unprofitable and little-known — came as a shock to Wall Street. Two years later came the multibillion-dollar deal to buy WhatsApp, a company that remains unprofitable but has given Facebook a prime portal into developing countries and other regions outside the U.S. In 2014, soon after Facebook bought a virtual reality firm called Oculus, Zuckerberg found himself being grilled in a lawsuit brought by a competitor who accused an Oculus executive of stealing trade secrets. Under questioning, he talked about the pressure he exerted to make the Oculus deal happen, and his vision of growing it so fast "that we can get every developer and studio in the world building just for Oculus before any big competitor exists." Last year, in a bid to free up his fortune for philanthropy, Zuckerberg pushed board members to restructure Facebook's stock, allowing him to sell off part of his stake while maintaining control. That prompted a suit by a group of shareholders who argued that the move would benefit only Zuckerberg while diluting the value of other investors' stakes. Days before Zuckerberg was scheduled to testify as part of the suit, the company dropped the plan. The gambit hints at the complexity of being Zuckerberg, who advocates for transparency and the interests of the community but whose individual interests don't always align. The paradox is self-inflicted, the trade-off for creating a venture premised on users' willingness to share details of their lives. That requires Zuckerberg, who has 105 million Facebook "friends," to reveal far more about himself than would be expected of any other CEO, whether its photos of him and Chan baking sweets for the Jewish holiday of Purim or dressing their daughters for the Chinese New Year. Advertisement Yet he fiercely guards his privacy. When calls went out last year for Zuckerberg to testify before a Senate committee, the company sent its lawyer. And when he and Chan bought 700 acres on the Hawaiian island of Kauai last year, they quietly filed lawsuits against hundreds of Hawaiians — withdrawn after protests — that would have cut off locals' access to the land by negating their interest in small ancestral tracts within the estate's boundaries. "Intellectually, he believes in transparency," Kirkpatrick said. "But emotionally, it's very difficult for him." ____ Facebook works hard to present Zuckerberg as someone deeply interested in the ordinary people whose lives are at the heart of its business. Stops on last year's U.S. tour, never announced, were set up by facilitators who revealed details to only a select few. But many of the visits were covered by the media and documented in professional-quality photos on Zuckerberg's Facebook page soon after he'd departed. Ostensibly, the idea was for Zuckerberg to learn. But in their brief interactions, many people were just as interested in finding a way to connect with him. In Hazard, Kentucky, educator Paul Green became custodian of the small town's biggest secret. A staffer from Zuckerberg's foundation, peppering Green with questions about the region's educational cooperative, finally admitted it was because the CEO himself wanted to visit. Green's reward for keeping it quiet was seeing the wide-eyed grins when Zuckerberg pulled up and greeted local high schoolers studying robotics and programming. Walking through science demonstrations, Zuckerberg spent more time trading tech tales with the teenagers than quizzing the teachers. "He just lit up with those kids," Green said. "The way he talked with them about some of the things he did when he was in school and his passion for technology, it really was cool." Advertisement When Zuckerberg toured an oil rig near Williston, North Dakota, last July, "from the minute he got out of the car to the minute he got back in the car, he was nothing but questions," said Ron Ness, president of the North Dakota Petroleum Council, which arranged the visit. "I had Bakken shale, limestone, dolomite, and he was able to hold them in his hand, along with a bottle of crude oil. And I remember him asking, 'How do you get that oil out of that rock?'" geologist Kathleen Neset said. In Dayton, Ohio, Zuckerberg met with officials, caregivers and families battling drug addiction. Lori Erion, the founder of the group Families of Addicts, said she told him what it was like to learn her daughter, April, had shot up heroin in their own home. "It seemed to get him really emotional," Erion said, recalling how Zuckerberg stood up suddenly and told the group he needed a few minutes to steady himself. When he returned, he asked what makes an addict stay clean and how families got their loved ones into treatment. "We didn't ever talk about Facebook at all," Erion said, "which is really interesting because Facebook is really the main way of us getting information out. He really was just like a regular person." ___ As Zuckerberg connected with Americans face-to-face, controversy over Facebook continued to spiral. Shortly before the election, McNamee sent a letter to Zuckerberg and Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, warning that Facebook was being manipulated in ways its creators never intended. It wasn't just about the U.S. election: A consulting firm had collected data on people interested in the Black Lives Matter movement and sold it to police departments, and critics had detected a well-organized, clandestine campaign supporting Brexit. All this pointed to a deep problem with Facebook — that it was simply not equipped or not willing to prevent the misuse of its platform. Advertisement McNamee said he has been disappointed in the incremental changes announced since. Facebook has adopted this "libertarian philosophy that says 'we are not responsible for anything downstream, we are allowed to disrupt media, we are allowed to addict our users and we are not responsible for any of the consequences of any of that,'" he said. Zuckerberg could change that. But McNamee said it is not enough to hire thousands of workers to weed through fake and abusive posts if those posts keep getting through. And tweaking Facebook's newsfeed so users see more posts from families and friends does not address his certainty that the algorithms underlying Facebook make it dangerously addictive. "You cannot cure addiction by doing more of the thing that got you addicted in the first place, which is what Zuck recommends," McNamee wrote in an email. Critics say Facebook continues to ignore the possibility of the social network being used for dark purposes, but Zuckerberg's supporters counter that he is unfairly blamed for problems he could not have foreseen. Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, credits Zuckerberg with leading Facebook through a shift in mindset, making changes that will nudge users into a more positive virtual environment — without completely shutting out inflammatory content. "Facebook basically is saying we enable people based on the way they behave. That's a very democratic argument. If people want to live in filter bubbles, who are we to say 'Don't live in filter bubbles,' even though we don't want them to?" Hoffman said. But Kirkpatrick argued that Zuckerberg's and Sandberg's surety that Facebook has a positive impact on society has blinded them to parallel realities. The company can't be fixed, Kirkpatrick said, until Zuckerberg comes to terms with existential threats to the way the social network does business — its potential to negatively affect democracy and the way it hooks in users. "There's no question in my mind that Mark Zuckerberg is an ethical and responsible human being who wants to do the right thing," he said. "However, I do not think he has yet grasped the gravity with which his service is being perceived to be a socially harmful force all around the world. And I also don't think he realizes the extent to which that really is true." McNamee, recalling Zuckerberg as a 22-year-old visionary, said the CEO must be willing to rethink long-held assumptions. But that does not mean he has to abandon building his global community. Advertisement "You've won," McNamee said he would tell Zuckerberg if asked again for his counsel. "You've achieved more than your wildest dreams. You're a billionaire. Now you have a chance to be a hero." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:22 P.M. E.D.T.
 JERUSALEM —  The number of Jews and Arabs between the Mediterranean Sea and Jordan River is at or near parity, figures cited by Israeli officials show, raising questions whether Israel can remain a democracy if it keeps territory where Palestinians seek a state. The population statistics were mentioned in an Israeli parliamentary statement on Monday summing up legislators' questioning of an official of Israel's military-run civil administration (COGAT) that coordinates government activities in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and in the Gaza Strip. Demography is studied closely on both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict because of its potential implications for both societies as they weigh possible solutions as Israel celebrates its 70th anniversary next month. With over a "two-state solution" frozen since 2014, some argue that if Israel becomes a binational state through annexation of land seized 51 years ago, it could one day be forced to choose between remaining a democracy or securing a Jewish majority by denying Palestinians the vote. Advertisement "We estimate the (Palestinian) population in Judea and Samaria at between 2.5 million and 2.7 million," Colonel Uri Mendes, COGAT's deputy director, using Israel's term for the West Bank, told a session of the Knesset's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. He noted that a Palestinian census put the figure even higher, at 3 million. Advertisement Avi Dichter, the committee's chairman and a former head of Israel's Shin Bet security service, responded that with the addition of Gaza's 2 million Palestinians, that meant there was now a total of about five million Palestinians living in the two territories that fell to Israel in the 1967 Middle East war. Taking the higher end of the Israeli figures cited and adding them to the 1.84 million Arabs living inside Israel, according to Israel's Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), would bring the total number of Arabs in Israel and the Israeli-occupied territories to around 6.5 million. This is around the same number of Jews living between the Jordan Valley and Mediterranean, according to the CBS. Jewish settlements in occupied territory Palestinians seek for a state have also dimmed Palestinian hopes of a viable and contiguous country of their own with East Jerusalem as its capital. Palestinians also fear their quest for statehood suffered another blow when U.S. President Donald Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital in December.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. SETTLERS DISPUTE DATA Israeli settlers immediately disputed the population figures, citing one study that put the number of Palestinians  in the West Bank at 1.8 million. "The slanted publication about Arab demography in Judea, Samaria and the Jordan Valley relies on data from the Palestinian statistics bureau which are not true or accurate. They (Palestinians) have an interest in inflating the numbers," settler spokesman Yigal Dilmoni said. But Ahmed Tibi, an Arab legislator in the Israeli parliament, described the figures as accurate and "well known to us for a long time". Advertisement Without the creation of a Palestinian state, Tibi said, Israel will be headed toward a "one-state solution" embracing either "apartheid or an Arab-Palestinian prime minister". Ofer Shelah, a committee member from the opposition centrist Yesh Atid party, said it is clear the Jewish majority between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean is "precarious". "From a demographic perspective, if Israel does not part with the Palestinians then there is real danger to realizing the Zionist dream of a Jewish and democratic Israel," Shelah told Reuters. Sergio DellaPergola, a demographer and professor emeritus at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said one state taking in two nations was not viable. "The answer is separation, the answer is manifestly separation. Two countries for two people, which of course has to be negotiated," said DellaPergola. Underlying political dynamics, he said, are more important than exact population percentages. (Additional reporting by Stephen Farrell, Maayan Lubell and Dan Williams; Editing by Mark Heinrich) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:05 A.M. E.D.T.
 LOS ANGELES —  Shoppers are making more quick trips to Whole Foods stores that have installed Amazon.com lockers, giving the natural and organic retailer a new way to boost sales, research from location data advertising firm inMarket showed on Monday. Short "micro" visits, defined as three to five minutes in length, were up 11 percent at stores with lockers since Amazon closed its purchase of Whole Foods on Aug. 28, according to an inMarket report provided exclusively to Reuters News. That compares with the 7 percent gain at stores in the same cities that do not have the banks of lockers, inMarket said. Amazon shoppers, including those seeking to avoid "porch pirate" package thefts, can choose to have their orders sent to a locker for one-time use at no additional cost. Amazon sends the customer the locker number and a unique code to open it and collect their package. Advertisement The firm studied 98 stores in the New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia, Dallas-Fort Worth, San Francisco, Washington, Houston, Boston and Atlanta metro areas. Some 76 stores, or about 16 percent the chain's 473 stores, had lockers. Advertisement People who stop at Whole Foods to retrieve a package from an Amazon locker could be tempted to buy a drink, milk or a promoted item, said experts, who added that the trips are also a way for the retailer to keep shoppers abreast of changes at the chain. "There's a serendipity and immediacy to the in-store experience," said Todd Dipaola, chief executive and founder of inMarket, which analyzes anonymous location data from the mobile devices of 50 million U.S. consumers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "As good as delivery is getting - one-day delivery, sometimes one-hour delivery - that still can't compete with the one-second immediacy of being in store and picking up that avocado that I'm about to make guacamole out of because I thought about it in that moment," Dipaola said. Micro visits have accounted for about 9 percent of all visits to grocery sellers so far this year, with Whole Foods lagging at 6.5 percent, inMarket said. Representatives from Amazon and Whole Foods did not comment. Whole Foods can drive impulse sales by placing products adjacent to lockers and providing quick and easy payment options, such as self-checkout, said Stewart Samuel, program director for IGD Services. He added that the chain already has tested an impulse/food-to-go area within a larger store in New York. "While this would be additional volume for Whole Foods Market, the impact on the convenience store channel overall would be negligible," Samuel said. Amazon has lockers in 7-Eleven Inc convenience stores in more than 300 cities, according to published reports. Representatives from 7-Eleven did not comment for this story. (Reporting by Lisa Baertlein; Editing by Sandra Maler) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESMARCH 25, 2018
 Here’s what to expect in the week ahead: TECHNOLOGY In a bid to take back some of the education market from Google, Apple on Tuesday plans to introduce new hardware and software for schools and students. But Apple has fallen to third place, behind Google and Microsoft, in the battle to own America’s classroom. So the new items may not move the needle much. Natasha Singer FINANCE A delegation of Saudi officials including the country’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, is in New York this week to schmooze with United States chief executives. The centerpiece of their visit is the Saudi-U.S. C.E.O. Forum, a daylong gathering on Tuesday with speakers like Andrew Liveris, the forum’s co-chairman and the chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company. JPMorgan’s leader, Jamie Dimon, is popping in, along with other financial chief executives. At the end of the week, the Saudis are expected to go to Seattle, where the agenda includes a meeting with a Microsoft founder, Bill Gates, and a stop at a Boeing plant. Emily Flitter AUTO INDUSTRY The 2018 New York auto show opens to the media on Wednesday and to the public on Friday, and while electric cars have been in the spotlight lately, it is roomier sport-utility vehicles that will dominate the stage at the Javits Center. Ford’s Lincoln brand will roll out a redesigned version of the Navigator, a seven-passenger behemoth, while General Motors will counter with a new smaller S.U.V. to be called the XT4. On the sidelines of the show itself, Waymo, the self-driving car division of the Google parent company Alphabet, will come to New York to lay out its vision for driverless cars. Neal E. Boudette ECONOMY Millions of Americans got a bump in their paychecks last month thanks to the newly passed Republican tax plan. Data released by the Commerce Department on Thursday should reveal whether they’re spending the extra cash or saving it. Last month’s report showed that Americans’ after-tax incomes jumped in January because of the tax plan, but those gains were mostly theoretical — companies didn’t actually begin withholding less money from employees’ paychecks until February. As a result, consumer spending slumped in January. The report on Thursday should show another increase in incomes, but the outlook for spending is less certain, despite the tax changes: An earlier report found that retail sales fell in February. Economists will also be watching this week’s data for signs of an increase in inflation, which could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates faster than it currently plans. Ben Casselman FINANCIAL American, British and Australian markets will close in observance of Good Friday, but some Asian exchanges will remain open. It is not a federal holiday in the United States, so American government offices and services will operate as usual. Passover also begins on Friday at sundown. Zach Wichter A version of this article appears in print on March 26, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Apple’s Education Push; S.U.V.s Will Rule Show.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:56 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  The number of mortgages approved by British banks during February fell by 11 percent compared with the same month last year after rising for the first time in four months in January, industry data showed on Monday. Mortgage approvals fell to 38,120 from 40,031 in January, industry association UK Finance said, suggesting a downturn in Britain's housing market since the 2016 Brexit vote remains. Consumer credit rose by 0.8 percent in annual terms in February, having risen by 0.6 percent in January which was its weakest increase since UK Finance's new consumer credit series started in April 2017. British households have been hit by a squeeze in their spending power after the 2016 Brexit vote pushed up inflation. Advertisement Net credit card lending amounted to 309 million pounds last month, down slightly from a net increase of 325 million pounds in January. Advertisement Eric Leenders, managing director of personal finance at UK Finance, said more home-owners were seeking remortgaging deals ahead of expected further interest rate rises by the Bank of England later this year.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We are also seeing a continuing rise in credit card spending, reflecting the growing number of transactions carried out using cards, while other forms of borrowing such as overdrafts continue to fall," he said. Stephen Pegge, UK Finance's managing director for commercial finance, said bank lending to businesses saw modest year-on-year growth in February, driven by investment by manufacturers. "Credit balances have risen at an even faster rate as companies build reserves in the face of economic uncertainty and its effect on longer term business confidence," he said. The Bank of England is due to publish broader lending figures on Thursday. (Reporting by William Schomberg, editing by Andy Bruce) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ED O’LOUGHLINMARCH 26, 2018
 DUBLIN — As Ireland prepares to vote in May on a referendum on whether to repeal its ban on abortion, anti-abortion campaigners can be seen rallying most weekdays on the streets of Dublin, outside Parliament, and at universities, news media buildings and the offices of human rights groups. They arrive wearing body cameras and bearing placards with graphic images of aborted fetuses. But not all of them are Irish. Of the eight members of the anti-abortion Irish Center for Bio-Ethical Reform who protested outside the offices of The Irish Times on a recent weekday, only three — including the group’s leader, Jean Engela — are Irish. The others include Americans and a Hungarian. “We try to be as multinational as the abortion industry, and they make no apologies for sending in their international affiliates to pontificate to the Irish people,” said Dr. Engela. Advertisement The protests — relatively small but highly visible here in the Irish capital — are an emblem of the strong emotions as the country prepares to vote in late May on whether to retain the Eighth Amendment of the Irish Constitution, which bans abortion in nearly all circumstances and was itself enacted by a referendum, in 1983. (Abortion was illegal before 1983, but the amendment made it even harder to terminate a pregnancy, even to save to mother’s life.) Advertisement To the age-old debates around abortion — including questions of when life begins and of women’s control over their reproductive rights — the referendum has added a new dimension of concern about potential outside interference in the vote. An ethics regulator recently ordered two abortion-rights groups, Amnesty International Ireland and the Abortion Rights Campaign, to return grants of $150,000 and $25,000 to George Soros’s Open Society Foundations. It said the money was a foreign political donation intended to affect the outcome of a referendum or election, and therefore banned. But so far it does not appear that any anti-abortion groups have been asked to return overseas donations, despite reports that money is being openly raised on their behalf, particularly in the United States. One American group, the Pro-Life Action League, told an Irish newspaper in 2012 that anti-abortion groups were raising hundreds of thousands of dollars to support Irish anti-abortion groups like Youth Defence, which has been linked to far-right movements in Europe. Youth Defence did not respond to a request for comment. The Pro-Life Action League’s executive director, Eric J. Scheidler, said that the remarks concerned American support for the Irish anti-abortion movement over several decades, and said his group had not raised money for the current campaign. The Irish Center for Bio-Ethical Reform, which picketed The Irish Times, receives foreign funding but claims to be exempt from government oversight. “We are an educational body,” Dr. Engela said. He denied that the protest had anything to do with the coming vote, and asserted that some of the volunteers were full-time activists with their own sources of funding. Advertisement Some commentators argue that anti-abortion groups are not being held to the same stringent standard as abortion-rights groups. Theresa Reidy, a political scientist at University College Cork, said that there was a long history of overseas interests taking sides in Irish referendums, particularly on issues like the European Union. Over the last decade, even as support for the abortion ban has waned, concerns about possible outside interference have risen, she said. Siobhan Mullally, of the Irish Center for Human Rights at the National University of Ireland, Galway, said the problem of undeclared foreign funding went beyond the abortion debate, and was “also a question about how charities are funded in general.” The Roman Catholic Church, long a major power in Ireland, was the main driver in the 1983 referendum. The church also opposed, successfully, a referendum in 1986 that would have legalized divorce. In the decades since, however, its social and moral authority has been gravely weakened by a number of scandals, most notably clerical child sex abuse. The church could not prevent the legalization of contraception and was on the losing side in referendums that legalized divorce in 1995 and same-sex marriage in 2015.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As a result, today’s anti-abortion activists are less overtly religious in their arguments. Instead, they are turning to arguments that abortion harms women’s health. They are also turning to social media tools. After recent revelations about the misuse of Facebook data to sway Britain’s referendum on European Union membership in 2016, and the United States presidential election later that year, fears are growing similar tactics might be used in the referendum campaign. The Save the 8th Campaign, an anti-abortion group, has hired Kanto Systems, a London-based political consultancy, to help run its campaign. Kanto Systems’s founder, Thomas Borwick, was chief technology officer for the Vote Leave campaign in Britain, and developed a canvassing app for Cambridge Analytica, the data-mining organization that exploited Facebook data on behalf of the 2016 Trump campaign. Advertisement Mr. Borwick said that he himself had not worked for the Trump campaign, and referred a reporter to a statement from Save the 8th, which said that Kanto would be performing “some data analytics for us” but would not be engaged in “any voter profiling or voter targeting.” John McGuirk, a spokesman for Save the 8th, said that in the Irish electoral system, which does not have online voter rolls, individually targeted advertising of the sort practiced by Cambridge Analytica would not be possible. “In terms of targeting advertising at individual voters, we couldn’t do that even if we wanted to, which we don’t,” he said. The Times of London reported that the Pro Life Campaign, Ireland’s largest umbrella anti-abortion group, has retained uCampaign, a Washington firm that has developed apps for the Trump campaign, the National Rifle Association, the Republican National Committee and Vote Leave. (Neither uCampaign nor the Pro Life Campaign responded to requests for comment.) The Transparent Referendum Initiative, a small group of Irish technology advocates, said it had already detected paid social media campaigns stealthily targeting Irish voters. This month, the group introduced a crowdsourced monitoring tool to detect and investigate anonymous or vaguely sourced paid advertising on Facebook. It has already identified 92 such ads relating to the Irish referendum, 55 with anti-abortion messages and 37 in support of abortion rights. Political advertising is banned on Irish television and radio, but the online world is a different matter. “There is no law against someone anywhere else in the world signing a commercial contract with a British company to use foreign money or unknown money, that is not going through any official regulated campaign, in order to influence an Irish vote,” said Liz Carolan of the Transparent Referendum Initiative. “There’s a serious vulnerability in our democratic system. And it’s now being exploited by incredibly sophisticated campaign techniques, and Facebook doesn’t have to tell us who’s doing it.” Responding to the Cambridge Analytica revelations, the Irish government announced last week that it planned to give Irish regulators new powers to curb external influence on Irish voters. A spokeswoman for Facebook’s Dublin office said that the company agreed with the need for more transparency in advertising, and that it was developing a new tool to help people identify paid ads in their timelines and to identify and label political content. However, she said, the tools will not be ready in time for the May referendum. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Fear of Foreign Influence as Irish Abortion Vote Nears.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:02 A.M. E.D.T.
 A look at some of the key business events and economic indicators upcoming this week: INCREASINGLY CONFIDENT American consumers have been feeling more confident lately than they've been since 2000. The Conference Board's consumer confidence index rose to 130.8 in February, the highest since November 2000, and up from 124.3 in January. Economists predict that the business research group's index for March, due out Tuesday, will show consumer confidence edged up to 131. Readings of 90 or better reflect a healthy economy. Consumer confidence, monthly: Oct. 126.2 Nov. 128.6 Dec. 123.1 Jan. 124.3 Feb. 130.8 March (est.) 131.0 Source: FactSet ECONOMIC SNAPSHOT The Commerce Department delivers its latest quarterly estimate of U.S. economic growth Wednesday. Economists project that the economy, as measured by the gross domestic product, increased at a 2.5 percent seasonally adjusted annual rate in the last three months of 2017. That would be down from the previous two quarters, when the economy posted consecutive gains of just above 3 percent. Advertisement GDP, seasonally adjusted annual rate, by quarter: Q3 2016: 2.8 Q4 2016: 1.8 Q1 2017: 1.2 Q2 2017: 3.1 Q3 2017: 3.2 Q4 2017 (est.): 2.5 Source: FactSet CASH IN, CASH OUT  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. American consumers account for 70 percent of U.S. economic activity, so the more they spend, the more the economy grows. Spending rose just 0.2 percent in January after increases of 0.4 percent and 0.7 percent the previous two months. January's slowdown came even as consumer incomes jumped because of last year's tax law overhaul. Did the trend continue in February? Find out Thursday, when the Commerce Department issues its latest consumer spending data. Advertisement Consumer spending, monthly percent change, seasonally adjusted: Sept. 1.0 Oct. 0.3 Nov. 0.7 Dec. 0.4 Jan. 0.2 Feb. (est.) 0.2 Source: FactSet We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Dipayan Ghosh Nine days ago, we learned that Cambridge Analytica, the firm engaged by the Trump campaign to lead its digital strategy leading up to the 2016 United States presidential elections, illegitimately gained access to the Facebook data of more than 50 million users, many of them American voters. This revelation came on the heels of the announcement made last month by the Justice Department special counsel Robert Mueller of the indictment of 13 Russians who worked for the Internet Research Agency, a “troll farm” tied to the Kremlin, charging that they wielded fake social media accounts to influence the 2016 presidential elections. But as Facebook, Google, Twitter and like companies now contritely cover their tracks and comply with the government’s requests, they simultaneously remain quiet about a critical trend that promises to subvert the nation’s political integrity yet again if left unaddressed: the systemic integration of artificial intelligence into the same digital marketing technologies that were exploited by both Cambridge Analytica and the Internet Research Agency. According to the F.B.I.’s findings, the tactics used to date by Russia have, technologically speaking, not been particularly sophisticated. Those tactics have included the direct control of fake social media accounts and manual drafting of subversive messages. These were often timed for release with politically charged incidents in the real world — including, for instance, the suicide bombings in Brussels, the declaration of Donald Trump as the Republican nominee and Mr. Trump’s staging of a town hall in New Hampshire, each of which occurred weeks before election night in 2016. Further, according to various experts, Cambridge Analytica’s targeting efforts likely were tame and ineffective. Each step of the digital campaigns seems to have been orchestrated by a human working from a computer terminal. To be sure, we know that the Internet Research Agency’s deception campaigns altogether enjoyed broad reach and were viewed by many Americans; more than 126 million of us may have unwittingly viewed the Russians’ egregious and misleading content on Facebook alone. And if Cambridge Analytica did indeed make use of the rich trove of sensitive data it acquired from Aleksandr Kogan’s firm Global Science Research, Cambridge Analytica’s content too likely reached tens of millions of American voters. But because their digital messaging was largely controlled directly by a bottleneck of human propagators, its spread necessarily was relatively uncoordinated and ad hoc. As the industry increasingly integrates artificial intelligence into digital advertising, however, disinformation operations and legitimate political communications will gradually become concerted, automatic and seamless. The real innovation in digital marketing — and the type of thing that the United States Congress and American voters should be particularly concerned about — is the execution of disinformation that operates at real scale. Where there were once a couple dozen human operators stitching together a few divisive messages during working hours in Moscow to pick at the digital halls of our democracy, there will soon be countless A.I. systems testing and probing a plethora of content on a vast field of social media user audiences that are highly segmented by race, ethnicity, gender, location, socioeconomic class and political leaning. We can expect advisory firms like Cambridge Analytica, the Russians and other participants — not to mention our own political parties themselves — to pounce on this new vector for political messaging and take direct aim at our open political discourse. Despite these myriad risks, industry professionals seem to have turned a blind eye to the oncoming specter of A.I., likely because they are optimistic about its commercial potential. The leading internet firms are offering free A.I. courses for their brightest engineers; are developing plans to integrate A.I. across their leading brands and products; and are staffing up with brilliant philosophers, ethicists and technocrats to deflect nosy regulators and win over the merchants of information. In his interview with The New York Times last week, Mark Zuckerberg even went so far as to describe A.I. as the antidote that will cure the internet of such negative externalities as hate speech and election interference. What internet firms are not transparent about, though, is the degree to which they plan to integrate A.I. into their principal profit-generating engine: digital advertising. Consider the scale and complexity of the advertising ecosystem. Global internet firms like Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat and Google collectively enjoy billions of active users who on average spend more than two hours on these platforms every day. Each user might be shown hundreds or thousands of digital display ads — or “sponsored” content — within that time. People in the industry leverage an intricate web of ad agencies, exchanges, networks, demand-side platforms and supply-side platforms to manage the delivery of those ads around the clock. But if you could remove those people from the equation, you could quietly turn a $100 billion digital ad industry into a $1 trillion persuasion machine. To be clear, algorithms have long been part and parcel of the industry. Organizations like the Russian government and Cambridge Analytica were taking advantage of them simply by virtue of using social media for political communications. But the sharp uptick in industry research and development in A.I. over the past year strongly suggests that this new technology will soon be brought to bear in digital advertising. This will increase the speed of ad mediation, inundating users with content finely tuned to their personal desires. It will abet the seamless and accurate development of “look alike” audiences, enabling advertisers to upload their customer lists and automatically send ads to like-minded people that they do not already know. And it will enable automated contingency-based marketing, allowing clients to programmatically trigger certain kinds of content to be shared in the moments after real world events transpire. For students of disinformation — including the Russians who to date have not even had to leverage such sophisticated web technology to mislead American voters — this new information ecosystem presents a vast land of opportunity. One could imagine that the Internet Research Agency could set up automated, machine learning-informed content-targeting systems so that minutes after North Korea’s leader references a hypothetical ICBM, the Russians send inflammatory A.I.-produced messages and imagery to classes of the American population that A.I. has predicted will be susceptible to disinformation. The scalability of such activity is what makes such tactics especially fearsome. Deep-rooted societal tensions will likely be exacerbated by the irresponsible integration of A.I. into digital advertising services — not to mention, into the ranking and curation of “organic” content on social media news feeds and search results. We’re already seeing this. For example, just a few hours before Senator Marco Rubio took the stage to speak with students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, ill-taught algorithms were responsible for the spread of YouTube videos that mocked and shamed the students. Even in light of the Cambridge Analytica revelations, there is time yet to act. Internet firms should aggressively work to limit disinformation on their platforms by developing algorithms — perhaps driven by A.I., as suggested by Mr. Zuckerberg — that can detect disinformation and flag it for fast human review. Strong one-off actions against widespread disinformation tactics, such as Twitter’s recent move, can also help. They also must be more transparent about their algorithmic software and data practices with researchers, journalists and consumers. Further, the regulatory community must continue its aggressive review of the industry’s practices. The Federal Trade Commission’s announcement of its forthcoming investigation into Facebook’s privacy practices represents excellent progress. In the meantime, the public must not let up. The economic structure of the digital sector has already harmed our society in ways that have been exacerbated by the unchecked collection of individual behavioral data. The revelations about Cambridge Analytica and Russia’s disinformation operations are prime evidence for this — and things could get worse very soon. Politicians and regulators must continue the call for a meaningful privacy law and stronger antitrust enforcement in this country. Nothing less can win us back full control of the state.  Dipayan Ghosh is a fellow at New America and the Shorenstein Center at the Harvard Kennedy School. He has previously served as a technology and economic adviser to the Obama White House and as a United States privacy and public policy adviser at Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement 
Word of the Day  By                     
THE LEARNING NETWORK

MARCH 26, 2018
 : greatly annoyed; out of patience _________ The word exasperated has appeared in 155 articles on nytimes.com in the past year, including on March 8 in “As Subway Crisis Takes Up ‘So Much Oxygen,’ the Buses Drag Along” by Sarah Maslin Nir: But the buses are freighted with problems — for example, in October buses were on time just 59 percent of the time, according to M.T.A. data analyzed by the Bus Turnaround Coalition, a network of advocacy groups focused on improving the system. Another persistent problem is known as bunching, buses on the same route traveling one after another, resulting in large gaps in service and aggravatingly long waits. New York also has the slowest buses of any large American city, with an average speed of about 7 miles an hour, and even slower speeds in parts of Manhattan where walking is sometimes the faster alternative. Bus riders have grown increasingly exasperated by the lack of reliability. Krista Kaszycki, who lives in the Bronx and works in Chinatown in Manhattan, abandoned the subway after enduring a cascade of delays last summer, believing buses to be more reliable and safe. Now she takes three buses to get to her job, a journey that typically takes an hour when service is running reliably, which has not always been the case. _________ The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By VIET THANH NGUYENMARCH 26, 2018
 THE HOUSE OF BROKEN ANGELS By Luis Alberto Urrea 315 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $27. Luis Alberto Urrea’s sorrowful and funny new novel, “The House of Broken Angels,” is one of those epic books about a complicated family that typically begin with a family tree to help the reader make sense of the relationships. Fortunately, this novel does not have such a tree. Instead, the reader has to do what any guest visiting such a family for the first time must do: Be alert, be attentive, be appreciative. And there is much to appreciate in Urrea’s highly entertaining story of Big Angel, the de La Cruz family’s patriarch, who buries his mother even as he himself is dying and as his family gathers to celebrate his 70th, and last, birthday. Dispelling the notion held by some Americans that all Mexicans have just crossed the border, Urrea creates a rambunctious de La Cruz family that lives in San Diego and “has been around here since before your grandparents were even born.” Urrea is intent on both celebrating the particularities of Mexican-American life and attacking the anti-Mexican racism that has been a part of American culture ever since the United States conquered quite a bit of Mexico. Well aware that Mexicans are perceived by many, including themselves, as having a flexible relationship with time — “You know you’re a Mexican when lunch doesn’t show up till 10 at night” — Big Angel prides himself on his punctuality. “As if a Mexican couldn’t be punctual,” he says. “As if Vicente Fox was late to things, cabrones.” The quips and jokes come fast through a poignant novel that is very much about time itself, especially the passing of time and the inevitability of death. The narrative unfolds in a little over a week, from the funeral of Mamá América to the passing of Big Angel. The last is hardly a secret, given how his name signals toward heaven. In addition, we know from early in the novel that he is dying of cancer and that his body’s basic functions are nearly beyond him. His wife, Perla, and daughter, Minnie, must help him bathe and relieve himself. “I used to be your father,” Big Angel says to Minnie with a sob. “Now I am your baby.” From the threshold of death back to the beginning of life, Big Angel finds himself in a “time bubble” and a “time storm,” immersed in memories of his journey from Mexico to the United States and the complexities of his family drama. Technically, Big Angel and Perla are undocumented immigrants, having crossed the border from south to north as teenagers. But Urrea takes care to show how Mexicans and Mexican-Americans — and Americans as a whole — are caught in the ever-changing politics and economics of border definitions and labor exploitation. Big Angel’s “grandfather Don Segundo had come to California after the Mexican Revolution, crossing the border in Sonora.” In the United States, he “learned English and learned to love baseball” during a time when Mexican labor was needed. When that time ended, however, “the de La Cruz family became Mexican again when they went back south in the great wave of deportations of 1932, joining two million mestizos rounded up and sent across the line in boxcars. The United States had apparently grown weary of hunting down and deporting Chinese people for the moment.” Advertisement Border politics have been important to Urrea — a prolific author of fiction, poetry and nonfiction — since he began his career with 1993’s “Across the Wire: Life and Hard Times on the Mexican Border.” During the 10-year struggle to publish his first book, he was told by one New York editor that “nobody cares about starving Mexicans.” Big Angel, his mother and his siblings are among those starving Mexicans who ultimately ascend to the middle and working classes. Big Angel is able to rent and then buy his home in a neighborhood where “all the houses had bars on the windows, which scared outsiders but which nobody from there even saw.” Big Angel’s achievement of the (Mexican) American dream is made possible by working multiple jobs — contrary to the stereotype of lazy Mexicans that irritates him so much — until he finally lands a position running computers for the gas and electric company, even though “he didn’t even like computers. A Mexican doing what these rich Americanos couldn’t do was the point.” For all of his success, however, he cannot protect his family from the things that life might tempt them with. Personal tensions, carnal desires and extramarital affairs inflame his siblings, in-laws, children and grandchildren. One of his stepsons with Perla, Yndio, is a “non-cisgendered, non-heteronormative cultural liberation warrior.” Another stepson, Braulio, was killed in a gang shooting. His own son, Lalo — traumatized by a tour in Iraq — struggles with drug addiction and his undocumented status, a situation unresolved by his military service. After being deported, Lalo had to cross back into the United States. A nephew, Marco, is the lead singer in a heavy metal band and stylizes himself as “the Satanic Hispanic.” He falls in love with a Dreamer, a young woman brought to the United States as an undocumented infant. Advertisement Many of the cheerfully profane activities of the family are seen through the eyes of Little Angel, Big Angel’s half brother, born of the union between Big Angel’s father and the white American woman for whom he left Mamá América and his family. Little Angel is a professor of literature, “the American,” “the Assimilator,” who struggles with his ambiguous place in the wholeheartedly Mexican-American de La Cruz family. His loving and tormented relationship with Big Angel, the older brother who broke his nose in a fistfight but who wants him to crawl into his deathbed, is one of the many touching relationships rendered with grace and empathy by Urrea. Anger and sorrow are one pair of emotions that keeps surfacing throughout “The House of Broken Angels.” So do love and pain, joy and resentment, hatred and reconciliation, backstabbing and tenderness. All complicated, all compelling in Urrea’s powerful rendering of a Mexican-American family that is also an American family. And what is Urrea’s novel but a Mexican-American novel that is also an American novel? American in the broadest possible sense, from the United States of America, north of the border, to Mexico and by implication all of the other countries south of the border that are also American. The novel disrespects borders, and that, no doubt, will infuriate those readers who couldn’t care less about Mexicans, starving or otherwise, if their legal status is in doubt. Urrea rightfully does not care about legal status, given the doubtful legality and certain unjustness of many American policies aimed at Mexico, Mexican migrants and Mexican-Americans. He is more concerned with expressing Little Angel’s belief, as he observes the intricacies of his family, that “if only the dominant culture could see these small moments, they would see their own human lives reflected in the other.” And the other that ultimately matters in this novel is death. Facing that last border that we all share and must cross, we can only hope to be like Big Angel, who “invited every memory to come to him and clothe him in beauty.” An earlier version of the biographical note with this review misstated the title of a novel written by the reviewer. It is “The Sympathizer,” not “The Sympathizers.” Viet Thanh Nguyen won the Pulitzer Prize in fiction for his debut novel, “The Sympathizer.” His most recent book is a story collection, “The Refugees.” Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast. A version of this review appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BR1 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: All in the Family.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:04 P.M. E.D.T.
 MINNEAPOLIS —  A toxicology report from Prince's autopsy, obtained Monday by The Associated Press, shows he had what multiple experts called an "exceedingly high" concentration of fentanyl in his body when he died. Prince was 57 when he was found alone and unresponsive in an elevator at his Paisley Park estate on April 21, 2016. Public data released six weeks after his death showed he died of an accidental overdose of fentanyl, a synthetic opioid 50 times more powerful than heroin. A confidential toxicology report obtained by the AP provides some insight into just how much fentanyl was in his system. Experts who are not connected to the Prince investigation said the numbers leave no doubt that fentanyl killed him. "The amount in his blood is exceedingly high, even for somebody who is a chronic pain patient on fentanyl patches," said Dr. Lewis Nelson, chairman of emergency medicine at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School. He called the fentanyl concentrations "a pretty clear smoking gun." Advertisement The report says the concentration of fentanyl in Prince's blood was 67.8 micrograms per liter. The report explains that fatalities have been documented in people with blood levels ranging from three to 58 micrograms per liter. Advertisement The report also says the level of fentanyl in Prince's liver was 450 micrograms per kilogram, and notes that liver concentrations greater than 69 micrograms per kilogram "seem to represent overdose or fatal toxicity cases."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There was also what experts called a potentially lethal amount of fentanyl in Prince's stomach. Dr. Charles McKay, president of the American College of Medical Toxicology, said generally speaking, the findings suggest Prince took the drug orally, while fentanyl in the blood and liver suggest it had some time to circulate before he died. Experts say there is no "lethal level" at which fentanyl can kill. A person who takes prescription opioids for a long time builds up a tolerance, and a dose that could kill one person might help another. Search warrants released about a year after Prince's death showed authorities found numerous pills in various containers around his home. A lab report obtained by the AP shows many of the pills tested positive for fentanyl and other drugs. Information that has been released publicly indicates the source of those drugs hasn't been determined. Last week, the lead prosecutor in the county where Prince died said in a statement that he was reviewing law enforcement reports and would make a decision on whether to charge anyone "in the near future." __ Follow Amy Forliti on Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/amyforliti . More of her work: https://apnews.com/search/amy%20forliti . We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By GINA KOLATAMARCH 26, 2018
 Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times. It wasn’t supposed to be like this. When a reader sends a tip to The Times, we investigate it, and normally one of two things happens: It becomes a story, or it doesn’t pan out. What’s unusual is when the course of investigating a tip leads a journalist to debunk it, and that becomes the story. In my 30 years writing about science and medicine for The Times, it had never happened to me — until now. And although I wavered for a while about whether to go ahead with the reporting, it ended up as an article about doctors’ hesitations to use tissue plasminogen activator (T.P.A.), a drug for people experiencing a stroke. It started with a tip in February from a Canadian emergency medicine doctor, who said in an email that T.P.A., a widely promoted drug, was not only useless but dangerous — it could cause bleeding in the brain. Yet the drug was advocated by medical societies and continued to be used, he said, because there were powerful corporate interests influencing practice guidelines and encouraging doctors to believe the drug worked. Advertisement I knew about T.P.A. and had always thought it was the only treatment that reduced disability when given to people within a few hours of a stroke caused by a blood clot that blocked a vessel in the brain. Had I been duped? Advertisement I called the Canadian doctor, who said there were 15 clinical trials of T.P.A. in stroke patients. Thirteen failed to show a benefit, and the two that found one were deeply flawed. He referred me to an emeritus professor of emergency medicine at U.C.L.A.; I emailed to ask to speak to him, and asked for suggestions of others who also questioned the drug. And I emailed a Harvard professor who is a stroke expert. The Harvard professor got back to me immediately. Oh no, he said, not that small but vocal group of disbelievers again. The T.P.A. data are strong and convincing, he said. The failed trials were ones that tried to expand the use of the drug — for example, by seeing if it was possible to extend the time interval when the drug was effective beyond four hours after the stroke began. He emailed a group of academic stroke experts, asking them to contact me. I can always tell when a story hits a nerve. People rush to call or email. That’s what happened this time with the T.P.A. advocates. My inbox was flooded. One American doctor emailed me from Saudi Arabia, where he was giving a lecture. I also spoke to dissenters. And it seemed that the evidence in favor of the drug was overwhelming. The major professional societies, after reviewing the data, had given it their highest possible recommendation for use. What to do? The tipster had acted in good faith, but his tip had backfired. The simplest thing would be to drop the story. I told the U.C.L.A. professor what I was hearing. “This is no surprise, Gina,” he said. He knew many neurologists adamantly disagreed with the dissenters’ view but said he also has heard from neurologists who told him they felt great pressure to give the drug. “They feel there’s a bit of career suicide if a neurologist bucks his or her professional spokespeople.” By now, I was fascinated. What I was seeing seemed to be the medical version of fake news, with T.P.A. skepticism being spread by social media and blogs. The result is that as many as 15 to 30 percent of stroke patients who could have been helped by the drug did not get it. Advertisement I wanted to write this story, but I needed a victim who knew about his or her missed chance. (Many never find out.) I found one: the father of a researcher who was a principal investigator for the original study showing T.P.A. worked in strokes. But when this expert’s own father went to an emergency room with a stroke, the doctor there refused to administer it. The T.P.A. advocate’s father, denied the drug, was permanently disabled. In today’s article, I did not mention the Canadian researcher who sent in the tip. He sincerely believed the drug was dangerous, and I did not want to embarrass him just because the article I wrote was the opposite of the one he was hoping for. I have a duty to the truth — but I always appreciate the heartfelt suggestions of tipsters, and I want to protect them, too. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:17 A.M. E.D.T.
 CHICAGO —  Ten years on from the financial crisis, many U.S. state and local public pension systems are still the worse for wear. Investment returns have been uneven and funding levels have yet to recover. Many pension funds have meanwhile attempted to boost returns by loading up on alternative investments to levels unheard of a decade earlier. "Some just cannot grow their way out of it. We have had several years of stellar (stock market) returns and it barely improved the underfunding situation," said Mikhail Foux, municipal credit analyst at Barclays in New York. The benchmark S&P 500 U.S. stock index has tripled in the past nine years, driven in part by unprecedented zero interest rate policies and massive monetary stimulus from central banks around the globe aimed at combating the deepest recession in a generation. Advertisement But pension returns struggled to match the broad market, and recent wobbles in U.S. equities have fed fears of another downturn. Advertisement "Now what happens when markets are falling 10 to 15 percent?" Foux asked. For an interactive graphic on public pension plan funded levels, click: http://tmsnrt.rs/2tPyAFf In 2007, a year before the crisis began, the median funded level was 92 percent for state retirement and 97 percent for local plans, according to Wilshire Funding Studies. That fell to 68 percent for states and 72 percent for local governments by 2016, the most recent data. A lower funded ratio indicates the overall soundness of a pension fund is weaker and more money is required to meet future obligations. EXPOSED Persistently low post-crisis interest rates meant pension funds could no longer depend to the same degree on fixed income to help meet withdrawal demands of an aging pensioner population. "When the crisis hit, it exposed the kind of precarious nature of the status of plans," said Jean-Pierre Aubry, state and local research director at Boston College's Center for Retirement Research. Even with U.S. rates inching higher since 2016 and stocks mounting record highs, pensions still struggled to generate consistent returns. For an interactive graphic on public pension annual median returns, click: http://tmsnrt.rs/2tRGptV The number of active public sector workers per retiree has been falling. That ratio declined to 1.42 in 2016 from 2.43 in 2001, according to a November 2017 National Association of State Retirement Administrators (NASRA) Public Fund Survey. That can boost pension costs when combined with a poorly funded plan. Advertisement For an interactive graphic of state and local government pension plan membership, click: http://tmsnrt.rs/2oZwAVq RISK TAKERS The sharp economic downturn that accompanied the 2007-2009 financial crisis weighed on core tax revenue, leading governments to pursue an unprecedented amount of reform measures to shore up pensions by boosting contributions and cutting benefits. "Just as these pension funds required higher contributions as a result of the market decline, the plan sponsors were less able to pay those higher contributions," said Keith Brainard, NASRA's research director.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That prompted retirement systems to turn to riskier alternative investments such as hedge funds, private equity, real estate and commodities to pad returns. U.S. public pension funds became the biggest risk-takers among pension funds internationally, according to one academic study updated in February 2017. To read the study, click: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2070054 Alternative investment allocations jumped to 24 percent in 2015 from 9 percent in 2005, according the Center for Retirement Research. "We know for the most part that alternatives have not been the panacea since the financial crisis," Aubry, noting that hedge funds and commodities have underperformed equities during that period. Public pension funds' assumed rates of investment return have trended lower since the crisis. If a plan's returns fall below that expected rate, government sponsors need to make up for the loss. But public plans in general have tended to lag private-sector pension plans in lowering those discount rates, according to data cited by New York's Rockefeller Institute of Government last year. Advertisement Between 1993 and 2012, as 10-year U.S Treasury yields fell by 4.3 percentage points, large private-sector U.S. plans reduced their discount rates to 4.4 percent from 8.2 percent. For large public plans for funding purposes, the rate only fell from 7.8 percent to 7.7 percent in the same period, according to the institute's report. LEGAL BATTLES In the years since the crisis it has proven difficult for some governments to modify retirement benefits, and legal wranglings are ongoing. Legal or political constraints have stymied changes in states like Illinois, Kentucky and New Jersey, where contributions have lagged actuarially required levels for decades. Lawsuits filed against more than 40 state and local governments since 2008 contested pension changes on constitutional grounds, according to the Laura and John Arnold Foundation, which tracks the litigation. Courts in 13 states have upheld reductions in cost-of-living adjustments (COLA) for retirees' pension payments, but have struck reductions down in four. In California, long-standing judicial rulings prohibiting the state and local governments from reducing benefits will be tested in three lawsuits before the state supreme court, according to Stuart Buck, the Arnold Foundation's vice president of research. (Reporting By Karen Pierog and Daniel Bases; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:20 P.M. E.D.T.
 AZUSA, Calif. —  A mountain lion roamed through backyards in a neighborhood outside Los Angeles before wildlife officers tranquilized it. The lion was spotted Monday morning in the eastern Los Angeles County community of Azusa, near the San Gabriel Mountains wilderness. TV news helicopters showed it pawing at the door of a home and jumping onto the roof of a shed, then leaping over a fence. Azusa police contained the big cat until wildlife officers arrived and used social media to warn residents to stay indoors. After being tranquilized, the sleeping lion was loaded onto a pickup truck to be moved out of the neighborhood. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:49 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON/BEIJING —  Top Trump administration officials are asking China to cut tariffs on imported cars, allow foreign majority ownership of financial services firms and buy more U.S.-made semiconductors in negotiations to avoid plans to slap tariffs on a host of Chinese goods and a potential trade war. A person familiar with the discussions said these were among the asks from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer as they pursue talks with Beijing. The Wall Street Journal first reported the demands from U.S. officials, saying they came in a letter sent to Beijing last week. White House trade adviser Peter Navarro confirmed that President Donald Trump asked Mnuchin and Lighthizer to try to resolve trade differences with China. Advertisement "We're hopeful there that China will work with us to basically address some of these practices," Navarro told CNBC television. Advertisement U.S. stocks surged on Monday on the news that the two sides were talking, after a massive rout last week when Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese imports over alleged misappropriation of U.S. intellectual property. The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its third biggest point gain ever, rising 669.4 points, or 2.8 percent, to close at 24,202.6 while the broader S&P 500 rose 2.7 percent after a nearly 6 percent drop last week. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang earlier on Monday said that China and the United States should maintain negotiations and repeated pledges to ease access for American businesses to China's markets. Li told a conference that included global chief executives that China would treat foreign and domestic firms equally, would not force foreign firms to transfer technology and would strengthen intellectual property rights, repeating promises that have failed to placate Washington. Despite a steady stream of fierce rhetoric from Chinese state media lambasting the United States for being a "bully" and warning of retaliation, Chinese and U.S. officials are busy negotiating behind the scenes. TARIFFS TO PROCEED WITHOUT AGREEMENT In an interview aired on Sunday, Mnuchin told Fox News that he was pursuing an agreement with the Chinese "for them to open up their markets, reduce their tariffs, stop forced technology transfer. These are all the things we want to do." "We are proceeding with these tariffs, we’re not putting them on hold unless we have an acceptable agreement that the president signs off on," Mnuchin added. Advertisement China has offered to buy more U.S. semiconductors by diverting some purchases from South Korea and Taiwan, the Financial Times reported, citing people briefed on the negotiations. China imported $2.6 billion of semiconductors from the United States last year. Chinese officials are also working to finalize rules by May - instead of the end of June - to allow foreign financial groups to take majority stakes in Chinese securities firms, the Financial Times said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I anticipate that for political reasons it would be logical for China to respond, because countries do," Blackstone Group Chief Executive Stephen Schwarzman told Reuters on Monday on the sidelines of the Beijing conference where Li spoke. "That’s why I view this more as a skirmish, and I think the interests of both countries are served by resolving some of these matters." China called on World Trade Organization members on Monday to unite to oppose Trump's proposed tariffs targeting alleged intellectual property theft, saying they should "lock this beast back into the cage of WTO rules." On Friday, China responded to the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum by declaring plans to levy additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports, including fruit, nuts and wine. China could also inflict pain on U.S. multinationals that rely on China for a substantial - and growing - portion of their total revenues, said Alex Wolf, senior emerging markets economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments. "This could put U.S. companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Starbucks, GM, Nike, etc in the firing line," Wolf said in a note. China can increase the regulatory burden on U.S companies through new inspections and rules; ban travel; stop providing export licenses of key intermediate goods; raise the tax burden on U.S. multinationals in China; or block U.S. companies from the government procurement market, he said. Advertisement CAR TARIFF DIFFERENTIAL The Trump administration has demanded that China immediately cut its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States by $100 billion. China has a 25 percent tariff on U.S. cars and has talked recently of lowering it, while Trump has often complained that the U.S. import tariff on passenger vehicles is only 2.5 percent. China's imports of U.S.-built motor vehicles totaled $10.6 billion in 2017, about 8 percent of the country's overall U.S. imports by value, according to U.S. government data. On the reported offer to increase U.S. semiconductor imports, it is unclear how U.S. chips would replace South Korean and Taiwanese chips, since there is minimal overlap between U.S. chips and those of the two Asian producers. China is heavily dependent on foreign semiconductors, one of its biggest import categories by value. That said, the United States accounted for just 1 percent of China's total semiconductor imports last year by value, according to Reuters calculations based on Chinese customs data. (Additional reporting by Matthew Miller, Ben Blanchard, Elias Glenn and Stella Qiu in Beijing and Eric Beech in Washington; Editing by Cynthia Osterman and Leslie Adler) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:28 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN FRANCISCO —  Internet gear maker Cisco Systems Inc. announced Monday that it will donate $50 million over five years to address the growing problem of homelessness in California's Santa Clara County and is encouraging other Silicon Valley companies to make similar efforts. In a blog post, Chief Executive Chuck Robbins said people in the San Francisco Bay Area know homelessness has reached a crisis level, costing the county where many tech companies are based $520 million per year. "Though homelessness seems intractable, I believe that it is a solvable issue," Robbins wrote. "I also feel very strongly that we have an opportunity — and a responsibility — to do something about it." Northern California's booming economy has been fueled by the tech sector. But the influx of workers coupled with decades of under-building has led to a historic shortage of affordable housing throughout the San Francisco Bay Area. Homelessness is now pervasive throughout Silicon Valley. Advertisement The median rent in the San Jose metro area is $3,500 a month, but the median wage is $12 an hour in food service and $19 an hour in health care support, an amount that won't even cover housing costs. The minimum annual salary needed to live comfortably in San Jose is $87,000, according to a study by personal finance website GoBankingRates.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cisco's donation will go to Destination: Home, a public-private partnership that focuses on getting housing for the homeless as the first step in addressing other problems related to health, addiction, family estrangement and joblessness. In addition to financing housing, the funding will also help improve data collection about homelessness services so money is spent more efficiently. Advertisement Ray Bramson, chief impact officer for Destination: Home, said the leadership shown by Cisco and its CEO is what the community needs to see from the major technology companies that call Silicon Valley home. "We've always known that tech could be a good partner," Bramson said. "We're hoping that by Cisco really stepping up and giving us this support we're going to see other great organizations in our valley step up. ... No one agency, no one organization can really do it alone." Cisco's donation is believed to be among the largest of its kind in the region. The tech company last year pledged $10 million to Housing Trust Silicon Valley's TECH fund, on the condition that it would be matched by others. LinkedIn matched $10 million. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:43 P.M. E.D.T.
 ALBANY, N.Y. —  A second consecutive year of soaring profits on Wall Street pushed the average bonus paid to securities industry employees in New York City to more than $184,000 in 2017, New York state's top elected fiscal officer reported Monday. The average bonus paid to brokers rose 17 percent to $184,220, Democratic Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli said. Pretax profits for the Wall Street broker-dealer operations of New York Stock Exchange member firms — the traditional measure of securities industry profits — jumped 42 percent to $24.5 billion, the highest level since 2010, according to DiNapoli. In 2016, pretax profits topped $17 billion. According to the comptroller's office, the average Wall Street bonus that year was $138,000. "The large increase in profitability over the past two years demonstrates that the industry can prosper with the regulations and consumer protections adopted after the financial crisis," DiNapoli said. Advertisement The annual accounting of bonuses paid to the securities workers serves as an indicator of how the financial services industry is doing. It also gives city and state tax collectors an idea of how much to expect from taxes on the billions of dollars in bonuses Wall Street brokerage firms pay employees. Advertisement Employment among the city's securities firms dipped slightly, to just under 177,000 jobs in 2017 after three consecutive years of job growth, DiNapoli said. An estimated 1 in 10 jobs in the city are either directly or indirectly associated with the securities industry, he said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The comptroller's annual report on Wall Street bonuses said the average salary, including bonuses, in the city's securities industry was $375,200 in 2016, the latest year data was available. That's five times higher than in the rest of the private sector, DiNapoli said. DiNapoli estimated the securities industry accounted for 18 percent, or $13.5 billion, of state tax collections in the state's 2016-2017 fiscal year and 6 percent, or ($3.2 billion, of New York City tax collections in the city's 2017 fiscal year. The Institute for Policy Studies, a Washington-based think tank that calls itself "a policy and research resource for visionary social justice movements," said the 2017 total bonus pool contains enough money to boost the minimum wage to $15 per hour for to all the nation's 3.2 million restaurant servers and bartenders. The group said the size of the payouts is a sign of what it called "the reckless Wall Street bonus culture which contributed to the 2008 financial crisis continues to flourish." DiNapoli said it's too soon to determine how the volatility in the financial markets so far in 2018 will impact year-end Wall Street profits. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By GINA KOLATAMARCH 26, 2018
 It was one of those findings that would change medicine, Dr. Christopher Lewandowski thought. For years, doctors had tried — and failed — to find a treatment that would preserve the brains of stroke patients. The task was beginning to seem hopeless: Once a clot blocked a blood vessel supplying the brain, its cells quickly began to die. Patients and their families could only pray that the damage would not be too extensive. But then a large federal clinical trial proved that a so-called clot-buster drug, tissue plasminogen activator (T.P.A.), could prevent brain injury after a stroke by opening up the blocked vessel. Dr. Lewandowski, an emergency medicine physician at Henry Ford Health System in Detroit and the trial’s principal investigator, was ecstatic. “We felt the data was so strong we didn’t have to explain it” in the published report, he said. He was wrong. That groundbreaking clinical trial concluded 22 years ago, yet Dr. Lewandowski and others are still trying to explain the data to a powerful contingent of doubters. Advertisement The skeptics teach medical students that T.P.A.is dangerous, causing brain hemorrhages, and that the studies that found a benefit were deeply flawed. Better to just let a stroke run its course, they say. Advertisement It’s a perspective with real-world consequences. Close to 700,000 patients have strokes caused by blood clots each year and could be helped by T.P.A. Yet up to 30 percent of stroke victims who arrive at hospitals on time and are perfect candidates for the clot-buster do not receive it. The result: paralysis and muscle weakness; impaired cognition, speech or vision; emotional and behavioral dysfunction; and many other permanent neurological injuries. Stroke treatment guidelines issued by the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association strongly endorse T.P.A. for patients after they’ve been properly evaluated. But treatment must start within three hours (in some cases, four-and-a-half hours) of the stroke’s onset, and the sooner, the better. A number of medical societies also endorse the treatment as highly effective in reducing disability. The drug can cause or exacerbate cerebral hemorrhage, or bleeding in the brain — a real risk. But in most stroke patients it prevents brain injury, and in any event, rates of cerebral hemorrhage have declined as doctors have gained experience over the years. Without treatment, “many patients end up permanently disabled,” said Dr. Gregg C. Fonarow, a cardiologist at the University of California, Los Angeles. “The stroke neurologists who are involved in chronic care see the devastating consequences.” “For some reason, the emergency medicine doctors are not factoring this in,” he added. While the vocal disbelievers are a minority, it is increasingly easy for them to spread their message on social media, said Dr. Edward C. Jauch, a professor of neurosciences at the Medical University of South Carolina. “The way information and opinion is now communicated to the younger generation of physicians is much more through web and social media and less through peer review journals, journal clubs or live debates,” Dr. Jauch said. Advertisement Dr. Charles R. Wira III, a professor of emergency medicine at Yale, said that when he talked to residents about T.P.A., they often start citing blogs and podcasts “as the divine word for why T.P.A. is harmful,” he said. “They have not read the articles or practice guidelines.” Skepticism has spread around the world, Dr. Jauch said, and he has come to expect naysayers wherever he goes. In Saudi Arabia, where he was lecturing at a conference, a Saudi doctor said over dinner that he simply did not believe in T.P.A. A leader of the skeptical contingent, Dr. Jerome Hoffman, an emergency medicine specialist and emeritus professor at U.C.L.A., believes that while the initial trial and a second one were positive, both were flawed. He reviewed the raw data from the federal study and concluded that more patients who got T.P.A. had the least severe type of stroke and fewer had the most severe type. The treatment and control groups were dissimilar — that is, those getting T.P.A. were less badly affected from the start. Experts disagree with this analysis. And 11 other studies did not show a benefit, Dr. Hoffman claims. But supporters note that those studies were meant to investigate whether T.P.A. might help patients with more severe strokes or those outside the recommended window of time. The failure of those efforts, they say, does not mean T.P.A. cannot help patients like those in the original clinical trials. A charismatic, riveting speaker, Dr. Hoffman has given educational courses across the country and many medical professionals have listened to informational tapes in which he presented his critique of the evidence. And his influence has spread.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. At U.C.L.A., he said in an interview, he has spoken to stroke patients and their families even as their medical teams headed into the emergency room. He has told the patients that although the stroke team would strongly recommend T.P.A., there actually was debate over whether the treatment benefits patients in the long term. In addition, no study suggested that a clot-buster was lifesaving, he told them, and it may cause bleeding in the brain in a small number of patients. Advertisement “In my experience, almost no one — after hearing a neutral version and then a positive version — chose T.P.A.,” Dr. Hoffman said. Dr. Hoffman said he has debated renowned neurologists about the benefits of T.P.A. at several meetings. Afterward, audiences voted overwhelmingly against the drug. “This is not a testament to any debating skill of mine, but reflects how people react when they are shown the actual evidence,” he said. At Sierra Vista Regional Medical Center in San Luis Obispo, Calif., Dr. Scott Bisheff, an emergency medical physician, tells patients there is great uncertainty about whether T.P.A. helps or harms. If it caused bleeding in a patient’s brain, the consequences could be catastrophic. About half of his stroke patients decline the treatment, Dr. Bisheff said. For neurologists, the worst scenario by far is the patient who is never even asked if he or she wants the clot-buster. At Yale, Dr. Wira said, patients sometimes are transferred from community hospitals where they have not received T.P.A. Usually, it’s far too late to try. Dr. Wira and other staff do not tell the family about the missed opportunity. “We try not to raise issues that may lead to litigation,” he said. But sometimes family members cannot help knowing what went on. It happened to Dr. Lewandowski. About a decade ago, Dr. Lewandowski was at work when he got a call that his father had had a stroke — his right side was paralyzed. But his father had gotten to the hospital within 45 minutes, well inside the window to receive T.P.A. Dr. Lewandowski told his mother to make the family’s wishes very clear. They wanted the emergency room doctor to give the clot-buster to his dad. The doctor refused. Advertisement “He told my mom that he doesn’t believe in the drug and he is not giving it. He doesn’t care who I am,” Dr. Lewandowski said. “I got in my car and drove 400 miles to the hospital,” he recalled. But by the time he got there, it was too late. The treatment window had closed. His father had a facial droop and slurred speech. His right arm and right leg flopped about uselessly. His stroke scale was 7, moderately disabling, but he survived for a few more years. “It was very difficult for me personally,” Dr. Lewandowski recalled. “I had spent so much of my professional life working on this treatment. It actually worked.” “I felt like I had let my dad down.” An earlier version of this article misstated Dr. Jerome Hoffman’s involvement in a business venture. Dr. Hoffman contributed to informational tapes, he did not sell them. Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Stroke Treatment Mired in Controversy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By CADE METZMARCH 26, 2018
 PALO ALTO, Calif. — Inside an old auto body shop here in Silicon Valley, Stefan Avalos pushed a movie camera down a dolly track. He and a small crew were making a short film about self-driving cars. They were shooting a powder-blue 1962 Austin Mini, but through special effects the rusted relic would be transformed into an autonomous vehicle that looked more like the DeLorean from “Back to the Future.” Stepping back from the camera, Mr. Avalos referred wryly to the movie he was filming as “Project Unemployment.” The film was a way of testing new technology from a start-up called Arraiy, which is trying to automate the creation of digital effects for movies, television and games. This new type of artificial intelligence, which is also being developed by the software giant Adobe and in other technology industry research labs, could ultimately replace many of the specialists who build such effects. Advertisement “This is no joke; it will put people out of work,” said Mr. Avalos, a Los Angeles-based filmmaker who also runs a visual effects house. “The artists are safe. But it will replace all the drudgery.” Advertisement Over the past three decades, computer-generated imagery has transformed how movies and television are made. But building digital effects is still a painstaking and enormously tedious process. For every second of movie time, armies of designers can spend hours isolating people and objects in raw camera footage, digitally building new images from scratch and combining the two as seamlessly as possible. Arraiy (pronounced “array”) is building systems that can handle at least part of this process. The company’s founders, Gary Bradski and Ethan Rublee, also created Industrial Perception, one of several robotics start-ups snapped up by Google several years ago. “Filmmakers can do this stuff, but they have to do it by hand,” said Mr. Bradski, a neuroscientist and computer vision specialist with a long history in Silicon Valley. He has worked with companies as varied as the chip maker Intel and the augmented reality start-up Magic Leap. Backed by more than $10 million in financing from the Silicon Valley venture firm Lux Capital, SoftBank Ventures and others, Arraiy is part of a widespread effort spanning industry and academia and geared toward building systems that can generate and manipulate images on their own. Thanks to improvements in so-called neural networks — complex algorithms that can learn tasks by analyzing vast amounts of data — these systems can edit noise and mistakes out of images or apply simple effects and create highly realistic images of very fake people or help graft one person’s head onto the body of someone else. Inside Arraiy’s offices — the old auto body shop — Mr. Bradski and Mr. Rublee are building computer algorithms that can learn design tasks by analyzing years of work by movie effects houses. That includes systems that learn to “rotoscope” raw camera footage, carefully separating people and objects from their backgrounds so that they can be dropped onto new backgrounds. Adobe, which makes many of the software tools used by today’s designers, is also exploring so-called machine learning that can automate similar tasks. At Industrial Perception, Mr. Rublee helped develop computer vision for robots designed to perform tasks like loading and unloading freight trucks. Not long after Google acquired the start-up, work on neural networks took off inside the tech giant. In about two weeks, a team of Google researchers “trained” a neural network that outperformed technology from the start-up that had taken years to create. Advertisement Mr. Rublee and Mr. Bradski collected a decade of rotoscoping and other visual effects work from various design houses, which they declined to identify. And they are adding their own work to the collection. After filming people, mannequins and other objects in front of a classic “green screen,” for example, company engineers can quickly rotoscope thousands of images relatively quickly to be added to the data collection. Once the algorithm is trained, it can rotoscope images without help from a green screen. The technology still has flaws, and in some cases human designers still make adjustments to the automated work. But it is improving. “These methods are still rough around the edges — there is still a long tail of things that can go wrong in unpredictable ways — but there aren’t any fundamental roadblocks,” said Phillip Isola, a computer vision researcher at M.I.T. and OpenAI, the artificial intelligence lab created by Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, and others. Mr. Avalos thinks this work could ultimately supplant work done by his own effects house. But he is comfortable with that. He already farms out many of the more tedious tasks, via the internet, to workers in other countries. As hardware improves, these methods will help generate preliminary effects right on the movie set, giving filmmakers a better idea of what the finished product will look like, Mr. Bradski said. The Mill, an effects house based in London, recently used Arraiy’s technology to create a system that could instantly apply effects that change the look of an automobile. If tech companies can help automate some of the grunt work involved in creating special effects, creative people will have a chance to try new things, said Pasha Shapiro, a filmmaker and special effects artist who has also worked with Arraiy. “Some work is so tedious that it is not practical,” he said. “That is where technology can help even more.” Follow Cade Metz on Twitter: @CadeMetz. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: A.I. Takes a Lead Role In Making Visual Effects.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:20 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Sebastian Vettel won the first round of what could be a long and lively Formula One title fight with Lewis Hamilton on Sunday but the Ferrari driver may be the one with more to worry about as they leave Australia. Champions Mercedes messed up in Melbourne, their mistake denying Hamilton what had looked a nailed-on victory from pole position, but they also left rivals in no doubt about their pace. "At the moment we're a bit worse off," Vettel told reporters after repeating last year's opening win thanks to a pitstop during a virtual safety car period that wrong-footed Mercedes, whose data wrongly indicated Hamilton had him covered. "Last year we had more pace at this point. If you look at the gaps the whole weekend, we're not yet a true match," added the German, who is vying with Hamilton to become a five-times  champion. Advertisement "I think if you look, and you are fair, then Lewis was fastest whereas last year I think we were fastest and it was very, very close." Advertisement Last year, Vettel led from Melbourne to Monza before his challenge imploded. Hamilton took pole on Saturday with one of the great qualifying laps of his career, lapping a massive 0.664 quicker than Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen. The time may have flattered him, with the Briton producing a near-perfect lap while Vettel would doubtless have been closer had he not made a mistake. But rivals also pointed to Mercedes' qualifying 'party mode' engine setting with concern. "Mercedes is playing with everyone... with that engine, no one can beat Mercedes. They're in a different world," Red Bull motorsport consultant Helmut Marko was quoted as saying after qualifying.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Despite the pessimism, and the absence of Red Bull drivers from the year's first podium, Melbourne did not dispel hopes of a three-way team battle. Australian Daniel Ricciardo, who finished fourth after starting eighth following a grid penalty, set the fastest lap of the race for Red Bull and was right on the tail of Raikkonen. "We are convinced that we had a better car than Ferrari, though the Mercedes still probably had something in hand," said  Red Bull principal Christian Horner. Melbourne is a hard track to overtake on but Bahrain is next up and more open. Vettel won there last year when it was the third race of the season but Hamilton will also fancy his chances. "We still got second. It feels like a dark cloud but it's not," the Briton had said on Sunday. "We have a great car, we are still the world champions and with a couple of adjustments we can win the next race." (Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Christian Radnedge) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 7:59 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Sebastian Vettel won the first round of what could be a long and lively Formula One title fight with Lewis Hamilton on Sunday but the Ferrari driver may be the one with more to worry about as they leave Australia. Champions Mercedes messed up in Melbourne, their mistake denying Hamilton what had looked a nailed-on victory from pole position, but they also left rivals in no doubt about their pace. "At the moment we're a bit worse off," Vettel told reporters after repeating last year's opening win thanks to a pitstop during a virtual safety car period that wrong-footed Mercedes, whose data wrongly indicated Hamilton had him covered. "Last year we had more pace at this point. If you look at the gaps the whole weekend, we're not yet a true match," added the German, who is vying with Hamilton to become a five-times  champion. Advertisement "I think if you look, and you are fair, then Lewis was fastest whereas last year I think we were fastest and it was very, very close." Advertisement Last year, Vettel led from Melbourne to Monza before his challenge imploded. Hamilton took pole on Saturday with one of the great qualifying laps of his career, lapping a massive 0.664 quicker than Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen. The time may have flattered him, with the Briton producing a near-perfect lap while Vettel would doubtless have been closer had he not made a mistake. But rivals also pointed to Mercedes' qualifying 'party mode' engine setting with concern. "Mercedes is playing with everyone... with that engine, no one can beat Mercedes. They're in a different world," Red Bull motorsport consultant Helmut Marko was quoted as saying after qualifying.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Despite the pessimism, and the absence of Red Bull drivers from the year's first podium, Melbourne did not dispel hopes of a three-way team battle. Australian Daniel Ricciardo, who finished fourth after starting eighth following a grid penalty, set the fastest lap of the race for Red Bull and was right on the tail of Raikkonen. "We are convinced that we had a better car than Ferrari, though the Mercedes still probably had something in hand," said  Red Bull principal Christian Horner. Melbourne is a hard track to overtake on but Bahrain is next up and more open. Vettel won there last year when it was the third race of the season but Hamilton will also fancy his chances. "We still got second. It feels like a dark cloud but it's not," the Briton had said on Sunday. "We have a great car, we are still the world champions and with a couple of adjustments we can win the next race." (Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Christian Radnedge) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:20 P.M. E.D.T.
 LAWRENCE, Kan. —  In the six years since Kansas last made the Final Four, coach Bill Self has produced eight NBA draft picks. Six were first-round selections, one was national player of the year and another was the No. 1 overall pick. You could argue all of those teams were more talented than this one. Yet they all stumbled where this year's team succeeded, falling shy of the final weekend of the NCAA Tournament. The teams led by Andrew Wiggins and Kelly Oubre didn't even survive the first weekend, and last year's group headlined by Frank Mason III and Josh Jackson was bumped in the Elite Eight. Perhaps that is why Self, as fiery as you'll find during a game but relatively composed everywhere else, was so emotional after the Jayhawks beat Duke in overtime to secure their spot in San Antonio. "Of all the teams we've had," he said during a conference call Monday, "this may be the one I wouldn't expect to do this, and for me to obviously be on these guys pretty hard for things that are shortcomings — basically their personality traits — and to see the reason we won is they 100 percent flipped those, that gives a coach a lot of pride." Advertisement Indeed, this group of Jayhawks overcame its share of adversity on the way to winning a record-setting 14th consecutive Big 12 title, the conference tournament and the Midwest Regional. Advertisement The first week of the season, Kansas learned that five-star recruit Billy Preston would be unable to play while the school investigated the ownership of his vehicle. He ultimately decided to turn pro and head to Europe, never once stepping on the floor for a game that counted. They lost three games at Allen Fieldhouse, more than they usually do in three seasons combined. They were thumped by Washington and Arizona State in games that revealed their many flaws. When the Big 12 Tournament rolled around, Udoka Azubuike sprained a ligament in his left knee to render him a 7-foot, 280-pound cheerleader. He barely played in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, but has come up big in wins over Seton Hall, Clemson and the Blue Devils. "It's just a great feeling for us, for the fans, just everything that we've been through this year, all the ups and downs," senior guard Devonte Graham said. "Everything that we've been through, we do it for moments like this. It's just special." Especially after coming oh-so-close the past two seasons. The Jayhawks rolled to the regional finals in 2016 before running into red-hot Michigan, which is likewise headed to San Antonio. And last year they romped through their region before losing to Oregon in Kansas City, their home away from home, a defeat that ended the college careers of Mason and Jackson and left a bitter taste.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That loss was a big reason Graham returned for his senior season. The same for Svi Mykhailiuk, who briefly considered the draft before deciding to come back for one last shot at glory. Both have been crucial during the NCAAs, but perhaps nobody has risen to the occasion like Malik Newman, the transfer from Mississippi State who dropped 32 points on Duke. He was expected to do big things coming out of high school, but things didn't pan out with the Bulldogs. So he transferred to Kansas and sat out a year, practicing with the scout team and waiting for his chance, only to spend most of this season with Self roaring into his ears. Advertisement He struggled on defense. He wasn't assertive on offense. He settled for poor shots and didn't do enough to take the pressure off Graham, which in turn ruined the offensive flow. But much as the Jayhawks got hot when it mattered, so did Newman. He was voted the MVP of the Big 12 Tournament before keeping his exceptional March going. He scored 28 against Seton Hall, 17 against Clemson and scored all 13 of the Jayhawks' overtime points against the Blue Devils. "These guys, they've been here plenty of times. And like Coach always said at the beginning of the year, they've been knocking on the door," Newman said. "That's basically what we was playing for, to help these guys get over that hump. I'm just glad that I was able to contribute in a good way to help." Now, the Jayhawks have their sights set on Villanova, the team that beat them one step shy of the Final Four two years ago. Win that matchup of No. 1 seeds and they'll be back in the title game for the first time since 2012, and on the doorstep of their first title in a decade. One that happened to have been won in San Antonio. "This is a team that's gotten hot at the right time. It's a group that's been inconsistent, that had its share of doubters," Self said, "including myself at certain times of the year. But there's no doubt that right now, they're playing their best ball." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:47 A.M. E.D.T.
 KUALA LUMPUR —  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak's government tabled a bill in parliament on Monday outlawing "fake news", with hefty fines and up to 10 years in jail, raising more concern about media freedom in the wake of a multi-billion dollar graft scandal. The bill was tabled ahead of a general election that is expected to be called within weeks and as Najib faces widespread criticism over the scandal at state fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB). Under the Anti-Fake News 2018 bill, anyone who publishes so-called fake news could face fines of up to 500,000 ringgit ($128,140), up to 10 years in jail, or both. "The proposed Act seeks to safeguard the public against the proliferation of fake news whilst ensuring the right to freedom of speech and expression under the Federal Constitution is respected," the government said in the bill. Advertisement The government defined fake news as "news, information, data and reports which is or are wholly or partly false" and included features, visuals and audio recordings. Advertisement The law, which covers digital publications and social media, would apply to offenders outside Malaysia, including foreigners, if Malaysia or a Malaysian citizen were affected. The government said in the bill it was hoped the public would be more responsible and cautious in sharing news and information. Opposition lawmakers have questioned the need for such a law, arguing that the government already had broad powers over free speech and the media. "This is an attack on the press and an attempt to instill fear among the rakyat (people) before GE14," opposition lawmaker Ong Kian Ming said on Twitter after the bill was tabled, using a Malaysian term for this year's election. Parliament, where the government has a comfortable majority, is expected to vote on the bill this week. U.S. President Donald Trump popularized the term "fake news", which he used to describe media reports and organizations critical of him.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The term quickly became part of the standard repertoire of leaders in authoritarian countries such as Venezuela and Myanmar. Governments elsewhere in Southeast Asia, including Singapore and the Philippines, have also proposed laws aimed at clamping down on the spread of "fake news", to the dismay of media rights advocates. Advertisement 'UNQUESTIONABLE POWER' Human rights group Amnesty International called for the bill to be scrapped immediately. "The vague and broad definition of 'fake news', combined with severe punishments and arbitrary arrest powers for police, shows that this is nothing but a blatant attempt to shield the government from peaceful criticism," the group's director for Southeast Asia and the Pacific, James Gomez, said in a statement. Malaysia's National Union of Journalists said the bill could easily be abused to stifle the media, as it would give the government "unquestionable power" to remove articles deemed prejudicial to public order or national security. The 1MDB scandal, exposed by foreign media and news blogs in 2015, refuses to die down despite Najib's consistent denials of any wrongdoing and his government's firm grip on Malaysia's state-owned mainstream media. Transactions related to 1MDB are under investigation in six countries including the United States, where the Department of Justice has launched civil cases to recover assets linked to the fund after investigations under an anti-kleptocracy initiative. The Malaysian government has acted harshly against media reporting on 1MDB. It suspended one newspaper, The Edge, in 2015 and blocked websites for publishing stories critical of Najib's role. A deputy minister was quoted in Malaysian media last week as saying that any news on 1MDB that had not been verified by the government was "fake". (Adds dropped word "to" in headline.) (Reporting by Rozanna Latiff and Joseph Sipalan; Editing by Paul Tait and Robert Birsel) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:47 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  The Australian ball-tampering scandal continues to ripple far beyond cricket circles, with captain Steve Smith portrayed as arch-villain in the sorry saga. A tide of moral outrage has flowed ever since Smith admitted conspiring to tamper with the ball during the third test against South Africa in Cape Town last week. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull described it as a "shocking disappointment", sponsors of Australia's national sport are said to be reviewing their involvement and Smith has been banned for one test with his future as captain in serious doubt. It was even the lead story on BBC's News at Ten on Sunday. The good and the great of world cricket are queuing up to take pot shots at Smith and his senior players for what has been described as an act of cheating, though Australia still lost the match comfortably. Advertisement The fallout has been extraordinary, considering those in numerous sports have found ways of pushing rules to and over the boundary without quite such widespread condemnation. Advertisement Doping is regarded as one of the most unpalatable forms of cheating, but there are many other examples of sportsmen and women trying to gain an edge, from a soccer players diving to win penalties to tennis players taking well-timed 'toilet breaks'. Some are more sophisticated, far more sophisticated than Australia's opening batsman Cameron Bancroft rubbing dust into a piece of sticky tape to create a rudimentary piece of sandpaper with which to work on the ball. 'BLOODGATE' In European rugby in 2009 Harlequins winger Tom Williams bit into a fake blood capsule so he could go off with a 'blood injury' and be replaced by specialist kicker Nick Evans in a Heineken Cup quarter-final against Leinster. Harlequins' director of rugby at the time, Dean Richards, was banned from coaching in Europe for three years for his role in the so-called bloodgate controversy. Cycling has been scarred by the use of illegal drugs but it is not always what riders put in their bodies.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Belgium's Femke Van Den Driessche was banned for six years after a motor was found in her bike at an under-23s world championship cyclo-cross race in 2016. Formula One motor racing also has a long record of teams trying to gain a less than sporting advantage, from illegal fuel, deliberate crashes and team orders. In 2007 McLaren was found guilty of stealing confidential data from rivals Ferrari and fined 50 million pounds ($71 million). In boxing, welterweight Antonio Margarito was banned for a year after a 2009 fight against Shane Mosley in which plaster of Paris, which could set like concrete, was found on his hand wraps inside his boxing gloves. Advertisement Baseball, the game most closely associated with cricket in the United States, is no stranger to ball-tampering either. One of the favourite tricks of pitchers is to apply pine tar to the ball or change its surface with hidden sandpaper. Batters have been known to 'cork' their bats for greater power. Golf, a sport with rules so draconian that players are often penalised for miniscule indiscretions, is not immune either, according to Vijay Singh's former caddie Kip Henley. "Cheating happens almost every single round," Henley said last year in an interview with website Golf.com. "If people think there's no cheating out there, they're crazy. Some of it's intentional, some of it's just ignorance." (Reporting by Martyn Herman; Editing by David Goodman) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:41 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Leading rugby officials have called for urgent action to try to halt the rising tide of injuries, particularly concussion, as rule changes to make the professional game faster and more open have led to an increase in collisions. The 2016-2017 Professional Rugby Injury Surveillance Project (PRISP) showed injuries in the Premiership and among England internationals have risen on last season, and stand slightly above the average since the annual survey began in 2002. Changes to the game's laws and their interpretation, designed to speed up the game have meant a rise in the number of tackles in a match, with more of them being high-speed "hits" that cause many of the injuries described in the report. The concussion debate came into sharper focus after Wales back George North got up after appearing to have been knocked unconscious, before being knocked out again in a Six Nations match in 2015. Advertisement "Put simply, we need to try to avoid head-to-head, head-to-knee and head-to-hip contact and make the tackle target between waist and the line of the shoulders," said Simon Kemp, the RFU Medical Services Director. Advertisement However Kemp, who has led efforts to better understand and treat concussion for many years, added: "If you design a law to make the game more free-flowing you have to ensure it doesn’t introduce other risks." Around 47 percent of all match injuries the report covered in the 2016/17 season were a result of a tackle - with an almost even split between tackler and ball carrier, the PRISP report showed. Concussion accounted for 43 percent of all injuries to tacklers, compared to 19 percent for the ball carrier. Overall, concussion accounted for 22 percent of all match injuries. With the publication of Monday's report the Rugby Football Union (RFU), Premiership Rugby (PRL) and the Rugby Players’ Association (RPA) launched the Professional Game Action Plan on Player Injuries.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It calls for a range of injury prevention initiatives by game administrators, referees, coaches, club, players and medical staff, a review of current laws and their application and more research into "player load". Several professional players, including England duo Billy Vunipola and Ben Youngs, have raised the idea of strike action on player welfare grounds if they are forced into a longer playing season to accommodate international games. Premiership officials say their plan would not increase game time. "Clearly the PRISP report has identified some significant challenges for us in relation to injury and player welfare," said Phil Winstanley, Rugby Director at Premiership Rugby. Monday's report said the incidence of training injuries had gone back up, with players on average unable to play for 33 days following an injury, the highest recorded level. In total, 36 percent of all injuries were sustained in training. Advertisement The report also said, for the first time, that the incidence of match injuries on artificial turf was significantly higher than on grass, though officials said more data was needed to understand whether this was an anomaly. Tackle height is a major concern and a key aspect of the plan is liaison with World Rugby to review laws and their application. However, officials stressed that any changes would need careful consideration to ensure they did not swap the risk of one impact injury for another. Kemp said studies showed there had been a four-fold increase in the recognition of concussive events in the professional game in England since 2012, and an eight-fold drop in the number of concussed players continuing to play after their head injury. (Reporting by Mitch Phillips, editing by Jon Boyle.Jon Boyle) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:40 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK — Wall Street scored its best day in 2-1/2 years and the Dow Jones Industrial Average saw its third-biggest point gain ever on Monday, as trade war fears eased on reports the United States and China are willing to renegotiate tariffs and trade imbalances. The rally, fueled by technology stocks, came on the heels of the indexes' worst weekly performance since January 2016, the S&P 500's gain making up for less than half of the prior week's near 6 percent loss. "We saw a really good rally because of potential talks with China," said Dennis Dick, Head of Markets Structure, Proprietary Trader at Bright Trading LLC in Las Vegas. "People are taking advantage of the huge dip last week." "I don't think you're out of the woods yet. There's political uncertainty," Dick added. Last week's drop was fueled in part by tensions surrounding U.S. President Donald Trump's move to levy tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese imports, in addition to those imposed on solar panels, steel and aluminum. Advertisement But tensions were calmed as Chinese Premier Li Keqiang repeated pledges to maintain trade negotiations and ease access to American businesses. Advertisement U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said on Sunday he believed Washington could reach agreement with China on some issues but tariffs would not be put on hold "unless we have an acceptable agreement that the president signs off on." 
            Position of the S. & P. 500 index at 1-minute intervals on Monday.         2,660 2,640 2,620 2,600 Previous close 2,588.26 2,580 10 a.m. Noon 2 p.m. 4 p.m. MARCH 26, 2018
 "It's clearly the easing of trade tensions. The comments by Steve Mnuchin late yesterday gave room for negotiation with China," said Oliver Pursche, Chief Market Strategist at Bruderman Asset Management in New York. 
            High yield in percent.         2.4 % 2.310% 2.0 1.6 1.2 0.8 ’17 ’18 MARCH 26, 2018
 But China did call for unity among World Trade Organization members to prevent the United States from "wrecking" the WTO, and urged opposition to Trump's tariffs targeting China's alleged intellectual property theft. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 669.4 points, or 2.84 percent, to 24,202.6. The two larger point gains for the Dow were in October 2008. The S&P 500 gained 70.29 points, or 2.72 percent, to 2,658.55 and the Nasdaq Composite added 227.88 points, or 3.26 percent, to 7,220.54. 7,220.54 The three major U.S. indexes saw their best percentage gains since Aug. 26, 2015. All 11 major sectors of the S&P 500 closed in positive territory, led by technology and finance indexes, up 4.0 percent and 3.2 percent, respectively.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The tech sector saw its biggest daily percentage gain since August 2015 and financials had their best day since November 2016. Microsoft pulled the indexes higher, gaining 7.6 percent. Morgan Stanley upped its price target on the tech company's stock, saying its market value could hit $1 trillion on improved margins and growth in cloud computing. Intel advanced 6.3 percent after brokerage Raymond James upgraded the technology to "market perform". Advertisement Facebook closed up 0.4 percent following several days of declines as the U.S. Federal Trade Commission announced it was investigating how the company allowed data of 50 million users to get into the hands of Cambridge Analytica. The Cboe Volatility Index, the most widely followed barometer of expected near-term volatility for the S&P 500, finished down 3.84 points at 21.03. Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 3.04-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 2.27-to-1 ratio favored advancers. Volume on U.S. exchanges was 7.30 billion shares, below the 7.35 billion average for the last 20 trading days. (Reporting by Stephen Culp; Editing by James Dalgleish) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 11:20 P.M. E.D.T.
 BEIJING —  Asian stocks fell for a third day Monday amid mounting fears about U.S.-Chinese trade tensions. KEEPING SCORE: The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.2 percent to 3,115.18 points and Tokyo's Nikkei 225 lost 0.8 percent to 20,445.03. Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 0.2 percent to 30,245.27 and Australia's S&P-ASX 200 retreated 0.6 percent to 5,787.60. South Korea's Kospi gained 0.2 percent to 2,422.63 while benchmarks in New Zealand, Taiwan and Southeast Asia fell. WALL STREET: Stocks had their worst week in two years as investors fled technology and bank stocks due to fears they might be hurt if Beijing responds to a U.S. tariff hike on Chinese imports by raising its own duties on American goods. Facebook fell 13.9 percent, wiping out $68 billion of market value, as outrage mounted over its handling of user data. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 2.1 percent to 2,588.26. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 1.8 percent to 23,533.20 points. The Nasdaq composite shed 2.4 percent to 6,992.67. TRADE FEARS: China's new economy czar, Vice Premier Liu He, told U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in a phone call that Beijing was ready to defend itself in an escalating tariff dispute, according to the Chinese government. President Donald Trump on Thursday approved possible higher duties on $60 billion worth of Chinese goods in a dispute over technology policy. On Friday, Beijing released a $3 billion list of U.S. goods targeted for possible retaliation over an earlier U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum imports. That has prompted fears the spat might depress trade worldwide and set back a global economic recovery. China has yet to say how it might respond to Trump's latest tariff approval, prompting hopes for a settlement. Advertisement ANALYST'S TAKE: "Markets are caught in conflicting currents. The trade tensions imperil growth," said Michael McCarthy of CMC Markets in a report. "There is hope risk assets may stabilize," said McCarthy. "Despite an extensive stream of tweets over the weekend President Trump declined to mention trade matters. This could be a sign that the threatened barriers are a negotiating position rather than a line in the sand."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. CHINESE FINANCE: China's newly appointed central bank chief announced sweeping plans to rein in surging debt and curb financial risks. Speaking at an economic forum, Yi Gang said high debt at state-owned companies and local governments and rising household borrowing are "still a challenge." But he expressed confidence Beijing has the experience and resources to mitigate risk. The ruling Communist Party has made controlling risk a priority after a run-up in debt prompted rating agencies last year to cut Beijing's government credit rating. ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude gained 10 cents to $65.98 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract jumped $1.58 on Friday to close at $65.88. Brent crude, used to price international oils, gained 18 cents to $69.99 in London. It rose $1.43 the previous session to $69.81. Advertisement CURRENCY: The dollar gained to 104.95 yen from Friday's 104.72 yen. The euro advanced to $1.2368 from $1.2352. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 8:35 P.M. E.D.T.
 Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Monday: 1. PORN STAR DESCRIBES THREAT OVER ALLEGED TRUMP ENCOUNTER Adult film star Stormy Daniels says she was threatened to keep silent about an alleged sexual encounter with Donald Trump in 2006, telling her story in a highly anticipated interview with CBS' "60 Minutes" broadcast Sunday. 2. WHO'S NOT JOINING TRUMP'S LEGAL TEAM AFTER ALL Washington lawyers Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing have conflicts that won't allow them to represent the president regarding special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation. 3. WHY FACEBOOK COLLECTED ANDROID CALL, TEXT DATA On the same day Facebook bought ads in U.S. and British newspapers to apologize for the Cambridge Analytica scandal, the social media site faced new questions about collecting phone numbers and text messages from Android devices. 4. WHERE IN REPUBLICAN COUNTRY RUSSIAN PUNK ROCKERS TARGETED TRUMP Crowds waited in line in the Republican stronghold of Idaho to see an anti-fascist performance by Russian punk collective Pussy Riot in their first North American tour Advertisement 5. WHERE CATALAN EX-LEADER HAS BEEN CAPTURED Five months after going on the run from Spanish authorities, Catalonia's former president was detained in Germany on an international warrant by highway police after the ardent separatist crossed the border with Denmark. Advertisement 6. HOW STUDENT ACTIVISTS ARE TAKING AIM AT GUN LAWS, NEXT ELECTION After hundreds of thousands of people marched in cities across the country, students are vowing to get young voters registered and send a message in upcoming elections.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 7. SAUDIS SAY ONE DEAD DURING MISSILE BARRAGE BY YEMEN REBELS Yemen's Shiite rebels fired a barrage of ballistic missiles targeting Saudi Arabia on the third anniversary of the kingdom-led war in Yemen. 8. WHERE AN ELECTION ISN'T ABOUT WHO WINS, BUT HOW MANY VOTE Authorities hope that enough people will vote for President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi to lend legitimacy to an election in which the only other candidate is an obscure politician who has made no effort to challenge him, after other potential candidates were arrested or pressured to withdraw. 9. WHY FEDERAL MONEY FOR OPIOID CRISIS IS A SMALL STEP FORWARD The federal government will spend a record $4.6 billion this year to fight the nation's deepening opioid crisis, which killed 42,000 Americans in 2016. 10. WHO'S GOING TO COLLEGE BASKETBALL'S FINAL FOUR The Final Four will include three teams that need no introduction and one from out of nowhere. In one semifinal, a barnburner of a matchup between top-seeded programs with rich histories: Villanova vs. Kansas. In the other, it's an upstart vs. another school that knows this road: No. 11 Loyola-Chicago vs. No. 3 Michigan. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
NASA’s new spacecraft, to be launched next month, will give scientists a much clearer view of the planets orbiting stars near to us. 
Out There  By                     
 DENNIS OVERBYE
 
MARCH 26, 2018
 KENNEDY SPACE CENTER, Fla. — The search for cosmic real estate is about to begin anew. No earlier than 6:32 p.m. on April 16, in NASA’s fractured parlance, a little spacecraft known as the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, or TESS, bristling with cameras and ambition, will ascend on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket in a blaze of smoke and fire and take up a lengthy residence between the moon and the Earth. There it will spend the next two years, at least, scanning the sky for alien worlds. TESS is the latest effort to try to answer questions that have intrigued humans for millenniums and dominated astronomy for the last three decades: Are we alone? Are there other Earths? Evidence of even a single microbe anywhere else in the galaxy would rock science. Not so long ago, astronomers didn’t know if there were planets outside our solar system or, if there were, whether they could ever be found. But starting with the 1995 discovery of a planet circling the sunlike star 51 Pegasi, there has been a revolution. NASA’s Kepler spacecraft, launched in 2009, discovered some 4,000 possible planets in one small patch of the Milky Way near the constellation Cygnus. Kepler went on to survey other star fields only briefly after its pointing system broke. After nine years in space, it’s running out of fuel. Advertisement Thanks to efforts like Kepler’s, astronomers now think there are billions of potentially habitable planets in our galaxy, which means the nearest one could be as close as 10 to 15 light-years from here. Advertisement And so the torch is passed. It’s now TESS’s job to find those nearby planets, the ones close enough to scrutinize with telescopes, or even for an interstellar robot to visit. “Most of the stars with planets are far away,” said Sara Seager, a planetary scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a member of the TESS team, referring to Kepler’s bounty. “TESS will fill in planets around nearby stars.” George Ricker, an M.I.T. researcher and the leader of the TESS team, expects to find some 500 Earth-sized planets within 300 light-years of here, close enough for a coming generation of telescopes on the ground and in space to examine for habitability — or perhaps even inhabitants. But there will be more than planets in the universe, according to TESS. “TESS is going to be a lot of fun,” Dr. Ricker said. “There are 20 million stars we can look at.” The spacecraft will be able to do precise brightness measurements of every glint in the heavens, he said. “Galaxies, stars, active galactic nuclei,” his voice trailing off. Most of the exoplanets will be orbiting stars called red dwarfs, much smaller and cooler than the sun. They make up the vast majority of stars in our neighborhood (and in the universe) and presumably lay claim to most of the planets. Like Kepler, TESS will hunt those planets by monitoring the light from stars and detecting slight dips, momentary fading indicating that a planet has passed in front of its star. The mission’s planners say they eventually expect to catalog 20,000 new exoplanet candidates of all shapes and sizes. In particular, they have promised to come up with the masses and orbits of 50 new planets that are less than four times the size of the Earth. Advertisement Most of the planets in the universe are in this range — between the sizes of Earth and Neptune. But since there are no examples of them in our own solar system, as Dr. Seager notes, “we don’t know anything about them.” Are they so-called “superearths,” mostly rock with a veil of atmosphere, or “mini-Neptunes” with small cores buried deep inside extensive balls of gas? Data from Kepler and astronomers suggests that the difference is mass: fertile rocks often are less than one and a half times the size of the Earth, while barren ice clouds often are bigger. Where the line really is, and how many planets fall on one side or the other, could determine how many worlds out there are balls of freezing vapor or potential gardens. “We need to make precise mass measurements,” said David Latham of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, who is in charge of organizing astronomers to follow up the TESS observations. To that end, the team has procured 80 nights of observing time a year for the next five years on a spectrograph called Harps North, which resides on an Italian telescope on the island of La Palma in the Canary Islands, a part of Spain off the coast of Africa. Harps — for High Accuracy Radial velocity Planet Searcher — can measure the mass of a planet by how much it makes its home star wobble as it goes around in an orbit. Such measurements, if precise enough could help distinguish the composition and structure of these bodies. TESS is one of NASA’s smaller missions, with a budget of $200 million; by comparison, Kepler had a budget of about $650 million. Recently TESS, partly clad in shiny aluminum foil, stubby solar panels folded modestly against its side, was sitting on a round pedestal inside a plastic tent. The tent occupied one corner of a cavernous “clean room” in a remote building on the scrubby outskirts of the space center here, amid palms and canals and flocks of cormorants. Advertisement The spacecraft is about the size of a bulky, oddly shaped refrigerator, festooned not with magnets but with mysterious nozzles and connectors. Four pairs of blue-clad legs were sticking out from underneath the pedestal, as if high-tech mechanics were working under a car. The engineers were taping plaques to the bottom of the spacecraft, including a memory chip containing drawings by schoolchildren who had been asked to imagine exoplanets might look like. Standing to the side, in a “bunny suit” of protective material that left only his bespectacled eyes visible, Dr. Ricker was staring into the tent at his new spacecraft, as if he were watching his car get fixed, and exchanging rocket talk with the engineers who had designed and built it. Dr. Ricker has been a rocket scientist, building astronomical satellites to be shot into space, for pretty much his entire career as a researcher at M.I.T.’s Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Most of his previous projects involved measuring X-rays or gamma rays from various snaps, crackles and pops in the cosmos, most recently the High Energy Transient Explorer, used to study the cataclysms known as gamma-ray bursts. Asked if planets represented a departure for him, Dr. Ricker shrugged, “Not so much.” All his work has involved delicate measurements of things changing, what he called “time-domain astronomy.” The key to this work is to maintain very stable and sensitive detectors — the imaging chips that are elite relatives of the sensors in your smartphone — so that they can reliably record the changes in brightness, just a few parts per million, that signal a planet passing by its star. Dr. Ricker said he and his colleagues had started “noodling” about a planet-finding mission back in 2006. After they lost out in a competition for NASA’s Small Explorers program, which are less expensive missions, the scientists re-entered a competition for a larger mission in 2010 — and won. They had gone to great lengths to design a compact spacecraft that would fit the rockets NASA used for Small Explorers, and so were nonplused when NASA selected SpaceX’s Falcon 9, which can carry a much larger payload, to launch the TESS mission. This is the first time NASA has purchased a ride from SpaceX, the rocket company run by Elon Musk, for one of its science missions. All eyes will be on the launchpad, given SpaceX’s history of occasionally providing unhappy, if spectacular,  denouements to missions. Advertisement A report released this month by NASA showed that the space agency and SpaceX still disagree on what exactly went wrong two-and-a half years ago when a mission to resupply the International Space Station disintegrated in flight. In a second mishap in 2016, a Falcon 9 blew up during a launchpad test, destroying a communications satellite whose customers included Facebook. Unbowed, SpaceX and its founder Mr. Musk have plowed on, with 22 consecutive launches of its Falcon and a maiden flight in February for the Falcon Heavy, the world’s most powerful rocket, which shot  one of Mr. Musk’s Tesla convertibles past Mars into orbit around the sun. “TESS looks like a little toy inside the Falcon 9,” Dr. Ricker said. But a toy with potential. On top of the spacecraft are four small cameras, each with a 24-degree field of view, a stretch of sky about the size of the Orion constellation. The cameras will stare at adjacent sections of sky for 27 days at a time, and then step to the next spot. In the course of the first year, the researchers will survey the entire southern hemisphere of the sky; in the second year, they will stitch together the northern sky. If the mission is extended beyond two years, they will repeat. Dr. Ricker and his colleagues have prepared a list of 200,000 nearby stars whose brightness will be measured and reported every two minutes in what they call the spacecraft’s “postage stamp” mode. Meanwhile, images of the entire 24-degree swaths of sky will be recorded every half-hour. That cadence is perfect for finding and studying current favorites in the race to locate habitable exoplanets, namely those circling the ubiquitous red dwarf stars, or M dwarfs, in astronomical jargon. “This is the era of the M dwarf,” Dr. Seager said. Because they are so much cooler and less luminous than the sun, their “Goldilocks” zones — where in principle liquid water is possible — lie only a few million miles out from each star, instead of the 90 million miles from which the Earth circles the sun. Advertisement At the shorter distance, a year in the life of a red dwarf planet is only 10 to 30 days. If TESS is watching that bit of the sky for 27 days straight, it may see three dips in brightness because of transits, enough to certify the planet as a real candidate and to start investigating its reality. But reality, as Dr. Seager noted, might not be the same as habitability, at least for the fragile likes of us. Red dwarfs are very unstable and given to violent solar flares, she said. Analyzing data from an 80-day Kepler observation of the Trappist system, involving at least seven Earth-sized planets tightly packed around a star about 40 light-years from here, Hungarian astronomers counted 42 solar flares raining lethal radiation through the little planetary system. At least one, Dr. Seager pointed out, was as energetic as a famous solar flare called the Carrington Event in 1859, which destroyed telegraph service on Earth and sent auroras as far south as the Equator. “Personally, I will always hold out for the true Earth twin, one we feel a kinship with,” Dr. Seager said, referring to a planet like ours that circles a bigger star like the sun. 
 
            Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.         
March 20
Vernal equinox
 
March 31
Deadline for the Google Lunar X Prize
 
April 1
NASA could launch the GRACE FO satellite
 AUG. 10, 2017
 To start its excellent adventure, TESS will be launched into an unusually eccentric orbit that takes the satellite all the way out to the moon at its farthest point. Gravitational interaction with the moon will then keep TESS in a stable 13.7-day orbit for as long as 1,000 years, Dr. Ricker said. The great apogee, the farthest distance from Earth, will minimize obstruction and interference from our planet. The spacecraft will radio its data back once every orbit, when it is closest to Earth, at about 67,000 miles up. Dr. Latham called it “a slick orbit.” But it will take almost two months and many rocket burns to get there and begin to do science. If all goes well, that would be the middle of June. Sometime during that process, Dr. Ricker said, the team will turn the spacecraft’s cameras on the Earth for a last look at home. Advertisement Asked if he was ready to be Mr. Exoplanet, Dr. Ricker winced. “What I’m looking forward to,” he said, “is getting some data to look at.” Sync your calendar with the solar system. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Seeker of Alien Worlds.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 10:16 P.M. E.D.T.
 KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia —  Malaysia's government proposed new legislation Monday to outlaw fake news and punish offenders with a 10-year jail sentence, a move slammed as an attempt to silence dissent ahead of a general election. Prime Minister Najib Razak has been dogged by a multibillion-dollar corruption scandal involving an indebted state fund, and rights activists fear the new law could be used to criminalize news reports and critical opinions on government misconduct. A general election must be held by August but is widely expected in the next few weeks. The anti-fake news bill, which must be approved by parliament, calls for penalizing those who create, offer, circulate, print or publish fake news or publications containing fake news with a 10-year jail term, a fine of up to 500,000 ringgit ($128,000) or both. The bill defines fake news as "any news, information, data and reports which is, or are, wholly or partly false whether in the form of features, visuals or audio recordings or in any other form capable of suggesting words or ideas." It covers all media and extends to even foreigners outside Malaysia as long as Malaysia or its citizens are affected. Advertisement "This is an attack on the press and an attempt to instill fear among the (people)" before the general election, opposition lawmaker Ong Kian Ming tweeted. Advertisement Government officials have said the law is needed to protect public harmony and national security. They have accused the opposition coalition of using fake news as a key weapon to win votes and warned that any news on the indebted 1MDB state fund that had not been verified by the government is fake. The U.S. and several other countries are investigating allegations of cross-border embezzlement and money laundering at 1MDB, which was set up and previously led by Najib to promote economic development, but which accumulated billions in debt. The U.S. Justice Department says at least $4.5 billion was stolen from 1MDB by associates of Najib, and it is working to seize $1.7 billion taken from the fund to buy assets in the U.S., potentially its largest asset seizure ever.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Najib, who denies any wrongdoing, has fired critics in his government and muzzled the media since the corruption scandal erupted three years ago. Support for Najib's ruling coalition has dwindled in the last two elections. In 2013, it lost the popular vote for the first time to the opposition. Yet analysts say Najib is expected to win a third term due to infighting in the opposition, unfavorable electoral boundary changes and strong support for the government among rural ethnic Malays. Critics say the anti-fake news bill will add to a range of repressive laws — including a sedition law, a press and publications act, an official secrets act and a security act — that have been used against critics, violated freedom of expression and undermined media freedom. A coalition of human rights and civic groups also has expressed concern that the government is rushing through the legislation, without consulting key stakeholders and releasing details in advance for public scrutiny. "Malaysia has a long and troubling track record of using its legal books to silence dissent," James Gomez, Amnesty International's director for Southeast Asia and the Pacific, said in a statement. "It is no coincidence that this law has been tabled with general elections just around the corner. We are already seeing how the government is closing the space for public debate ahead of the polls." Other Southeast Asian countries, including Singapore and the Philippines, have also proposed laws to clamp down on fake news. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:50 P.M. E.D.T.
 MEXICO CITY —  Mexico's state-owned oil company has signed what appears to be one of its first big gas fracking contracts with a subsidiary of Texas-based Lewis Energy. The Petroleos Mexicanos company said Monday it would drill and exploit non-conventional gas deposits with Lewis Energy Mexico in the portion of the Eagle Ford shale formation in Mexico. While Pemex did not mention fracking, it is the method commonly used to drill for gas in the Eagle Ford area. Pemex said the contract involves about $617 million in investments and yields potential gas production of 117 million cubic feet per day by 2021. Detractors say fracking wells have already been drilled in Mexico, but the government has not released much information about them. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:14 P.M. E.D.T.
 Remington, the storied gun maker that began turning out flintlock rifles when there were only 19 states in the Union, has filed for bankruptcy reorganization amid years of slumping sales and legal and financial pressure over the Sandy Hook school massacre. In papers filed Sunday in federal bankruptcy court in Delaware, Remington outlined a plan to turn over control to its creditors and continue operating with up to $100 million from lenders. It remains unclear what will happen to its 3,500 or so employees as it tries to put its finances in order. Remington, whose roots go back to 1816, when the Western frontier beckoned, saw its debts mount with the election of President Donald Trump, who has called himself a "true friend" of the National Rifle Association but whose victory ended years of panic-buying by people afraid a Democrat in the White House would crack down on guns. In 2017, firearm background checks, a good barometer of sales, declined faster than in any year since 1998, when the FBI first began compiling such data. Advertisement The Madison, North Carolina, company's production of one of the best-known weapons in the world, the Bushmaster AR-15 rifle, has also proved problematic. The young man who killed 20 first-graders and six educators in the Sandy Hook shooting in Connecticut in 2012 used a Bushmaster. Advertisement An AR-15-style weapon made by a different manufacturer, Smith & Wesson, was used last month in the rampage at a Parkland, Florida, high school that left 17 people dead. That attack has led to huge protests around the country and a new student-led movement to tighten gun laws. Remington was sued by victims' families after the Sandy Hook tragedy. That lawsuit was dismissed because of broad immunity granted to the gun industry, but the Connecticut Supreme Court is weighing whether to reinstate it. Some investors decided after Sandy Hook that they wanted nothing to do with the Remington. Cerberus Capital Management, the private equity firm that acquired Remington in 2007 as gun sales began to boom, tried to sell it less than a week after the shooting. There were no takers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, Remington Outdoor Co. said it would give holders of a $550 million loan to the company an 82.5 percent stake. Other creditors would get the rest. The industry has been hurt by another trend: A large percentage of guns in the U.S. are owned by an increasingly small group of people. A recent study by Harvard University and Northeastern University found that the number of privately owned guns in America grew by more than 70 million — to approximately 265 million — between 1994 and 2015. But half of those guns are owned by only 3 percent of the population. That small base of what are sometimes referred to as "super-owners" has made the industry more unstable. In 2015, Colt Holdings Co., another storied gun maker, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Likewise, profits at Sturm, Ruger & Co. are under pressure, and its stock is down 18 percent this year. Some of Wall Street's heaviest hitters are stepping into the national debate on guns. BlackRock — a major shareholder in Sturm Ruger, American Outdoor Brands and Vista Outdoor Brands — announced about a week after the Parkland shooting that it wanted to speak with the three firearms makers about their responses to the tragedy. The firm is also looking into creating new investment funds that exclude gun makers and retailers. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:29 A.M. E.D.T.
 PARIS —  France brought its public deficit below the European Union's three percent limit for the first time in a decade last year, data showed on Monday, supporting President Emmanuel Macron's goal of restoring French fiscal credibility in Brussels. Shrinking to a better-than-expected 2.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2017, the budget shortfall came in below the government's 2.9 percent target, the best reading since before the global financial crisis in 2007. Macron, a fervent europhile, had made respecting EU budget rules, after years of delays by his predecessors, a cornerstone of his aim to repair France's reputation as a serial offender of euro zone rules. The improvement should give welcome support to Macron's quest to convince Germany, the EU's paymaster, to reform the euro zone and help overcome mistrust between northern European countries and what they perceive as profligate southern members. Advertisement "It helps us get back our credibility in Europe," Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire told Franceinfo radio. "Today, when the president speaks in Europe, he is listened to and respected." Advertisement Shortly after he was elected last May, Macron took belt-tightening measures, including cuts to a popular housing allowance, to make sure the budget deficit would not overshoot the three percent limit, costing him precious points in his popularity rating. However, figures from the INSEE statistics office showed the better-than-expected improvement in France's public finances was also in a large part due to stronger tax receipts, boosted by brisker economic growth. The French tax burden rose to a record of 45.4 percent of GDP in 2017 from 44.6 percent the year before. Government spending rose by 2.5 percent and government revenue by 4 percent, INSEE said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. France was also one of only two euro zone countries still under the European Commission's excessive-deficit procedure, with only Spain expected to have done worse in 2017, according to European Commission forecasts. France was on course to exit the procedure, which had meant increased monitoring by Brussels, EU Commissioner Pierre Moscovici said, but said the government should not let up on its efforts to continue reducing the deficit. On the domestic front, the better-than-expected deficit figures could represent a headache for the president. Calls are growing within his party for some of the windfall, as it has come to be called, to be spent, instead of being used entirely to pay down debt, as his government has promised. Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire has dismissed such calls, saying France's debt, which reached 97 percent of GDP last year, was unsustainable. On Monday, Le Maire said he maintained France's deficit objective of 2.8 percent in 2018, adding: "I will do everything to do better than what's been announced." Advertisement (Reporting by Michel Rose; Editing by Larry King) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:01 P.M. E.D.T.
 VANCOUVER —  British Columbia's attorney general said on Monday he will ask the federal government to provide more tools to track financial criminals and crack down on money laundering when he appears before a federal committee in Ottawa this week. David Eby will make numerous recommendations on Tuesday to a federal finance committee stemming from a probe of money laundering at British Columbia casinos, his office said in a statement. The laundering probe opened last fall after the release of a government report on suspicious transactions at a Vancouver-area casino popular with Chinese gamblers. It has already led to plans for more stringent rules, including increased scrutiny on big-money gamblers. The next round of recommendations will require Ottawa's support as they fall under federal jurisdiction. The province is also seeking additional money from the federal government for policing white collar crime. Advertisement Eby will ask that Canada's anti-money laundering regulator, the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada (FINTRAC), start sharing information with law enforcement in order to better track financial criminals.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He will also recommend that cash purchases of big-ticket luxury items, such as cars, be tracked, as they can be used to introduce hundreds of thousands in illegal cash into the legitimate economy. Advertisement Cash deposits over C$10,000 at banks and casinos, and in real estate and other investment sectors, trigger FINTRAC reporting requirements, while cash retail purchases do not. Eby's recommendations are the work of investigator Peter German, a former deputy commissioner with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, who is expected to present his final report to the province by the end of this month. (Reporting by Julie Gordon in Vancouver; Editing by Tom Brown) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JESSE McKINLEYMARCH 26, 2018
 ALBANY  — Exactly a week after declaring her candidacy  to unseat Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, Cynthia Nixon took her nascent campaign to the state capital on Monday, delivering a bushel of bon mots and attacks on “the old boys’ club” that she says runs Albany. She repeatedly called the governor a bully — of the media, of fellow elected officials, and “especially women.” She bashed his record on corruption, mentioning the recent conviction of his former friend and aide, Joseph Percoco. And she compared Mr. Cuomo, a second-term Democrat, to Republicans from George W. Bush to Donald J. Trump. Undergirding all of it was an assertion that despite having never held public office, Ms. Nixon, a Democrat, knew all about the capital and its notorious dysfunction. “I have come to Albany mad as hell about Republicans, and I have come to Albany mad as hell about Democrats,” Ms. Nixon said, standing in front of about a dozen public-school parents. “And now I’ve come to Albany to join my brothers and sisters here today to say: It’s time for a change.” Advertisement Mr. Cuomo, 60, has already launched various campaign offensives to try to blunt the impact of the novelty of Ms. Nixon’s challenge, her celebrity and her pointed attacks. He already also holds enormous advantages in fund-raising, with some $30 million in campaign funds, and a big edge in early polling. Advertisement The governor also was the beneficiary of a supportive statement from Héctor Figueroa, the president of 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, released shortly after Ms. Nixon finished speaking. He lauded Mr. Cuomo’s record and downplayed those who “seize the most headlines” through personal attacks. “We saw Cynthia Nixon’s news conference,” said Rachel Cohen, a union spokeswoman, when asked about the motivation for Mr. Figueroa’s statement. “And we just wanted to restate our support for the governor’s record.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The stated reason for Ms. Nixon’s visit to Albany was to lobby for more equitable education funding, an issue on which the actress and activist has been lobbying for years. But the event was also, of course, an opportunity to cast a broader message. Ms. Nixon, 51, took a smattering of questions after her speech, keeping most of her answers brief. She expressed support for raising taxes on the rich, called the governor’s 2 percent spending cap “disastrous,” and demurred when asked about revelations about Mayor Bill de Blasio — an ally of hers — taking tens of thousands of dollars in donations from a Long Island restaurateur seeking better lease terms for one of his restaurants. “We just have to get big money out of politics,” Ms. Nixon said, while being chased down a Hilton stairwell by the press corps. “It’s completely subverting our democratic process.” In her speech, Ms. Nixon, who is trying to become the state’s first female governor, seemed galled at Mr. Cuomo’s failure to invite the Senate minority leader, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the only woman in leadership in the Legislature, to help negotiate a raft of new sexual-harassment proposals in the budget. Ms. Nixon likened the situation to the governor “mansplaining and lecturing women on sexual harassment.” She also attacked Mr. Cuomo for being part of “an old boys’ club of one actual Republican and two wannabe Republicans,” referring to John J. Flanagan, the Republican Senate leader, and Jeffrey D. Klein, leader of the breakaway Independent Democratic Conference, which collaborates with Mr. Flanagan to rule the Senate. “In a few days, or maybe sooner, Governor Cuomo will walk out of that room and do what he always does: promise big, get some headlines,” she said, “and ultimately hand all the power over to his buddies in the Republican Senate.” Follow Jesse McKinley on Twitter: @jessemckinley  A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Nixon Visits State Capital ‘Mad as Hell’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:56 P.M. E.D.T.
 Stocks closed sharply higher Monday, powering the Dow Jones industrial average to a gain of nearly 670 points and erasing slightly more than half of the market's big losses last week. Technology companies led the market's broad gains, giving the Dow and other major indexes their best day since August 2015. Banks also posted solid gains as bond yields rose. Investors were encouraged by signs Washington and Beijing are open to negotiating on trade. On Monday: The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 70.29 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,658.55. The Dow gained 669.40 points, or 2.8 percent, to 24,202.60. The Nasdaq added 227.88 points, or 3.3 percent, to 7,220.54. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks picked up 33.63 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,543.72. For the year: The S&P 500 is down 15.06 points, or 0.6 percent. The Dow is down 516.62 points, or 2.1 percent. The Nasdaq is up 317.15 points, or 4.6 percent. The Russell 2000 is up 8.21 points, or 0.5 percent. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:17 A.M. E.D.T.
 PALM BEACH, Fla. —  President Donald Trump has issued an order supporting his push to ban most transgender troops from serving in the U.S. military except under "limited circumstances." But the decision is expected to be the subject of an ongoing legal fight in the months ahead. The White House announced the decision late Friday, shortly after the president arrived at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, completing a process that followed Trump's surprise announcement on Twitter last year that he would reverse an Obama administration plan to allow transgender individuals to serve openly. In a memo to the president, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis pointed to "substantial risks" with allowing military personnel who seek to undertake a treatment to change their gender or who question their gender identity. Mattis also said exempting those in the military from "well-established mental health, physical health and sex-based standards" applying to all service members could hurt "military effectiveness and lethality." But the policy includes narrow exemptions allowing some transgender members to serve. Advertisement The Pentagon has not released data on the number of transgender people serving, but a Rand Corp. study previously estimated between 1,320 and 6,630, out of 1.3 million active-duty troops. Advertisement Several legal challenges have blocked Trump's efforts to enact a ban, and four federal courts have already ruled against the ban. The Pentagon responded by allowing those serving to stay in the military, and began allowing transgender individuals to enlist beginning Jan. 1. Civil rights advocates said they would continue the legal fight, which could eventually reach the Supreme Court. Before the policy was announced on Friday, Maj. David Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said it would have no immediate practical effect on the military because the Pentagon is obliged to continue to recruit and retain transgender people in accordance with current law. HOW THE POLICY WORKS Mattis wrote in the 48-page memo that U.S. troops who require or have already had gender reassignment surgery should be disqualified from military service. Service members with a history or diagnosis of "gender dysphoria," or those with discomfort with their biological sex, would also be banned — but with some exceptions. Current transgender service members who have not yet undergone reassignment surgery are allowed to remain in the military, as long as they have been medically stable for 36 consecutive months in their biological sex before joining the military and are able to deploy across the globe. It also allows currently serving service members to remain if they were diagnosed with gender dysphoria since the Obama administration's policy took effect and prior to the start of the new Trump policy. Those service members are allowed to serve in their preferred gender and receive medical treatment for gender dysphoria. Advertisement THE PATHWAY TO THE DECISION During President Barack Obama's final year in office, the Pentagon announced it would allow transgender individuals to serve openly in the military and service members could not be discharged solely based on their gender identity.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The process was still under final review when Trump took office. Mattis announced in June 2017 that he would delay enacting the policy for six months while the military studied the issue. Trump in July 2017 declared on Twitter that the U.S. would not "accept or allow ... transgender individuals to serve in any capacity" in the military. The tweets caught the Pentagon off guard and were followed by the review of the policies. The president received recommendations from Mattis in February for dealing with transgender individuals serving in the military, leading to Friday's announcement. LEGAL CHALLENGES Several legal challenges to Trump's proposed ban are ongoing. At least four federal judges have refused to allow the ban to go into effect. Because of the injunctions, the Pentagon has been allowing transgender individuals to enlist since January. One of the forefronts of the legal fight is in California, where a federal judge rejected a Trump administration attempt to throw out a lawsuit asking for the ban to be voided. California's attorney general, Xavier Becerra, said Friday the state would "continue to vigorously defend the rights of transgender individuals." Lambda Legal and OutServe-SLDN, meanwhile, said they would seek a permanent injunction on Tuesday before a federal judge in Seattle. The Justice Department said in a statement late Friday that it would defend the Pentagon's authority to "implement personnel policies they have determined are necessary to best defend our nation" and would ask the courts to lift all related preliminary injunctions. REACTION TO TRUMP'S PLAN The response to the White House announcement has largely fallen along partisan lines, with Democrats and civil rights groups opposing the plan and Republicans and conservatives approving of it. Advertisement House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California called it a "hateful ban" aimed at humiliating transgender members of the military. Tony Perkins, president of the conservative group Family Research Council, said Trump had kept his pledge to "end the Obama era of social experimentation in our nation's military" and the policy would move the military away from "political correctness." __ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:44 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  A group of whistleblowers on Monday questioned the integrity of Britain's vote to leave the European Union, presenting 50 pages of documents that they say prove the official Brexit campaign group violated election finance rules on the way to winning the 2016 referendum. They allege that the official Vote Leave campaign circumvented spending limits by donating 625,000 pounds ($888,000) to the pro-Brexit student group BeLeave but sending the money directly to campaign consultant AggregateIQ. The firm has long-term links to Cambridge Analytica, the British consultant accused of misusing Facebook data to help Donald Trump win the 2016 U.S. presidential election, the group says. "This not about re-fighting the referendum," Chris Wylie, the central figure in the original Cambridge Analytica revelations, told reporters at a packed news conference in London. "It's about the integrity of the democratic process." The allegations have been presented to Britain's Electoral Commission and come just days after a prominent Labour Party politician called for a second Brexit referendum once the true costs of leaving the bloc become clear. Britain voted to leave the EU in a June 2016 referendum, with 52 percent of voters supporting Brexit. Advertisement They were first published last weekend as part of a wide-ranging investigation of Cambridge Analytica by Britain's Observer newspaper, together with Channel Four and The New York Times. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said Monday that it is investigating Facebook's privacy practices as a result of concerns raised by earlier stories in the series. Advertisement Campaign finance rules limited Vote Leave's spending on the Brexit referendum to 7 million pounds. When Vote Leave got close to that limit during the final weeks of the campaign, it made the donation to BeLeave, said Shahmir Sanni, a volunteer who helped run the grassroots student group. "I know that Vote Leave cheated," Sanni told Britain's Channel 4 news. "I know that people have been lied to and that the referendum wasn't legitimate." Attorney Tamsin Allen laid out the evidence supporting the claims during a news conference in London, presenting journalists with printouts of electronic message exchanges, photos and a legal opinion presented to Britain's Electoral Commission. The message exchanges show Vote Leave officials overseeing the content of material distributed by BeLeave volunteers, and offering suggestions on how BeLeave workers should respond to questions from the Electoral Commission. One email from a commission investigator discusses how BeLeave should report the Vote Leave donation since it never actually received the money. The whistleblowers also have evidence that AggregateIQ was sending targeted ads on behalf of BeLeave at a time when it was working closely with Vote Leave, Allen said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "A number of witnesses, including Shahmir Sanni, one of the Vote Leave volunteers, have now come forward with their accounts and produced emails, invoices, photographs and evidence from the internal systems of Vote Leave and BeLeave," she said. Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, a leading figure in the Leave campaign, dismissed the campaign finance allegations as "ludicrous." Environment Secretary Michael Gove, who was co-chair of the Vote Leave campaign, insisted the referendum result must be respected. Advertisement "I respect the motives and understand the feelings of those who voted to remain in the EU," he said. "But 17.4 million opted to leave in a free and fair vote and the result must be respected. It's our job now to work to overcome division." AggregateIQ, based in Victoria, British Columbia, said it has never been part of Cambridge Analytica and has never signed a contract with the company. But Wylie told the Observer that he was instrumental in the foundation of AggregateIQ, when he was the research director of SCL, the parent company of Cambridge Anayltica. He said they shared underlying technology and worked so closely together that Cambridge Analytica staff often referred to the Canadian firm as a department. But the company said it was 100-percent Canadian owned and operated and was never part of Cambridge Analytica or SCL. "AggregateIQ works in full compliance within all legal and regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions where it operates," the company said in a statement. "It has never knowingly been involved in any illegal activity. All work AggregateIQ does for each client is kept separate from every other client.'" Britain's Electoral Commission says it doesn't comment on active investigations, but it has acknowledged a number of open inquiries related to the EU referendum. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:11 A.M. E.D.T.
 BERLIN —  World champions Germany will be far from full strength when they host Brazil in their international friendly on Tuesday, with coach Joachim Loew planning to field a second-string team as he tests ahead of the World Cup. The last time these two teams, who have won the world title a combined nine times, met was at the 2014 World Cup when Germany stunned the sports world with a 7-1 demolition of hosts Brazil in the semi-final. But fewer fireworks are expected this time with both nations missing key players and busy tinkering with their preparations for the World Cup in Russia which begins in June. Brazil, who have lost just once in the 17 matches since coach Tite took over, will be missing injured Neymar while the Germans are without Mesut Ozil, Thomas Mueller and Manuel Neuer among others. Advertisement Midfielder Emre Can has also been ruled out with a back injury while Sami Khedira is doubtful after picking up a minor knock against Spain on Friday, Loew said. Advertisement Marc Andre ter Stegen, the starting keeper in the absence of Neuer, will also be given a rest. "Marc will have a break because he has a bit of a knee issue and maybe it is good to have a break for a couple of days," Loew told reporters. He also said Marvin Plattenhardt would replace Jonas Hector at full back while Leroy Sane and Ilkay Guendogan would start as Germany aim to equal their unbeaten run of 23 matches dating back from 1978-80. Loew added the game was more an opportunity to experiment rather than a rematch of four years ago. "For us that match does not play as big a role as it does in Brazil," he said. "Disappointment was obviously big, especially as the host nation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Now Brazil may have some thoughts of revenge but you cannot really do that because you cannot bring that semi-final back. But Brazil have improved." Tite took over in 2016 and apart from a friendly loss to Argentina, his team have gone unbeaten since then. "They have improved considerably," said Loew. "They have reinvented themselves in the past two or three years. "They are very disciplined, they are all defending and their attack is among the best in the world. Even Neymar and Philippe Coutinho -- both attacking players -- work extremely hard at the back. The coach has succeeded in making them more stable." The five-times world champions kick off their World Cup campaign against Switzerland on June 17 before facing Costa Rica and Serbia. The Germans have been drawn in Group F of the tournament, along with Mexico, South Korea and Sweden. (Reporting by Karolos Grohmann; Editing by Christian Radnedge) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:52 P.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai on Monday said he was proposing new rules to bar the use of funds from a government program to purchase equipment or services from companies that pose a security threat to U.S. communications networks. Pai's statement did not disclose what companies or countries prompted the proposal. But on Friday, Pai said in a letter to Congress that he shared the concerns of U.S. lawmakers about espionage threats from Chinese smartphone maker Huawei Technologies Co. Pai said Monday that "hidden ‘back doors’ to our networks in routers, switches — and virtually any other type of telecommunications equipment - can provide an avenue for hostile governments to inject viruses, launch denial-of-service attacks, steal data, and more." The FCC will hold an initial vote on the proposal on April 17. It would bar carriers from getting government subsidies in purchasing equipment to provide service in four programs, including providing service in some rural or hard-to-reach areas, service to libraries and schools and a program that helps low income consumers get phone service. Advertisement The proposal asks how the FCC should define companies that would be covered the prohibition and how to enforce the rules. Advertisement The proposal would bar the spending of funds from the $8.5 billion FCC Universal Service Fund on companies or countries described as posing a "national security threat to the integrity of communications networks or their supply chains." USTelecom, an industry trade group representing companies including Verizon Communications Inc, Oracle Corp and CenturyLink Inc, said its members "will continue working with the FCC and other agencies to address supply chain vulnerability issues." The Telecommunications Industry Association, which represents Qualcomm Inc, Cisco Systems Inc and others, said it "strongly support efforts by the government to address concerns regarding certain communications equipment providers deemed to pose a heightened security risk." Pai's proposal follows the introduction of legislation by Republican Senators Tom Cotton and Marco Rubio in February that would block the U.S. government from buying or leasing telecoms equipment from Huawei, the world's third largest smartphone maker, or Chinese telecommunications equipment maker ZTE Corp, citing concerns the companies would use their access to spy on U.S. officials.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Chinese firms have come under greater scrutiny in the United States in recent years over fears they may be conduits for spying, something they have consistently denied. Huawei declined to comment Friday. In January, Huawei's planned deal with U.S. carrier AT&T Inc to sell its smartphones in the United States collapsed at the 11th hour. AT&T was pressured to drop the deal after lawmakers sent a letter to Pai citing concerns about Huawei’s plans to launch U.S. consumer products. In February, Republican Senator Richard Burr, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said at a hearing that he worried about the spread in the United States of “counterintelligence and information security risks that come prepackaged with the goods and services of certain overseas vendors." "The focus of my concern today is China," Burr added, "and specifically Chinese telecoms like Huawei and ZTE Corp, that are widely understood to have extraordinary ties to the Chinese government."In 2012, Huawei and ZTE were the subject of a U.S. investigation into whether their equipment provided an opportunity for foreign espionage and threatened critical U.S. infrastructure - something they have consistently denied. Advertisement Congress in 2017 banned U.S. government agencies from using security software from Moscow-based Kaspersky Lab. It came amid mounting concern among U.S. officials that the software could enable Russian espionage and threaten national security. Last week Reuters reported Best Buy Co Inc, the largest U.S. consumer electronics retailer, will stop selling Huawei’s devices over the next few weeks. Verizon also ended its plans to sell Huawei phones last year, according to media reports. (Reporting by David Shepardson; Editing by Tom Brown) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 7:14 A.M. E.D.T.
 SYDNEY —  A shallow 6.6 magnitude earthquake struck off Papua New Guinea on Monday, the U.S. Geological Survey said, the latest in a series to hit the region in recent days, but there were no immediate reports of casualties or damage. The quake struck 180 km (110 miles) west of the town of Rabaul, on New Britain island, at a depth of 10 km, the USGS said. The quake was initially recorded with a magnitude of 7.0 but was later downgraded. There was no immediate tsunami warning. "We are okay. No one is injured," said Sylvia Ombul, night desk supervisor at the Kimbe Bay Hotel in the port town of Kimbe, about 140 km to the west of the quake. Advertisement "Right now at the hotel all my guests are okay," Ombul added. She described the quake as "not really big". Papua New Guinea, one of the world's poorest countries, is still reeling a month after a magnitude 7.5 quake hit some 900 km to the west in its rugged and remote highlands, killing at least 100 people as landslides buried villages. Advertisement (Editing by Nick Macfie) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By TIM HERRERAMARCH 26, 2018
 Welcome to the Smarter Living newsletter. The editor, Tim Herrera, emails readers with tips and advice for living a better, more fulfilling life. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. We’ve all been there: Your boss asks for a meeting, and you know it’s not going to be great. You messed up a project, or dropped the ball on a presentation, or whatever else goes wrong in the modern office, and it’s time for you to hear about it. The anxiety leading up to that meeting is almost paralyzing, and you already can tell that this conversation is going to wreck your week. But what if we could train ourselves to crave that negative feedback? And that instead of anxiously worrying about those meetings, we could excitedly anticipate them? Advertisement This is the idea behind a fascinating episode of the TED podcast “WorkLife With Adam Grant” that dives into why we hate hearing negative feedback. Advertisement When we’re confronted with it, Adam explains, we have a physiological response: We tense up, our breathing gets shallower and our ego becomes so threatened it begins to limit the information that is let into our brains. We regulate to avoid taking in harsh critiques. In fact, a 2017 working paper from researchers at Harvard and the University of North Carolina said we sometimes go so far as to reshape our social networks in the office to avoid people who tend to give us negative feedback. Why do we react this way to feedback that is ostensibly supposed to help us? Essentially, it’s because all of us are so awful at delivering negative feedback. It’s a self-reinforcing vicious circle that trains us to avoid what would make us better at work and in life. If this sounds familiar, it’s because a few months ago we talked about seeking out people who will give you unvarnished, honest and, most important, genuinely helpful feedback. The solution to this problem on both sides — whether you’re receiving the feedback or giving it — boils down to trusting that everyone is participating in good faith. A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When you’re delivering negative feedback, do so honestly and openly, and frame the conversation as a difficult-yet-necessary means to an end of improving the receiver’s performance (and mean it!). Don’t sugarcoat it, either. Those “praise sandwiches” in which we surround a bad review with halfhearted, superficial compliments don’t help either side. If you’re receiving the feedback, frame it so it will ultimately lead to self-improvement. Yes, it can be tough to take. But imagine that on top of being judged on your job performance, you’ll also be judged on how you act on the feedback. Advertisement So the next time you receive harsh feedback, acknowledge that it can be hard to hear, but don’t sulk and shut down. Even if you’re given a C for performance, you can still earn an A for improvement. And eventually, like one C.E.O. whom Adam interviews in his podcast, you can retrain your brain to actively seek out that feedback so you associate it not with anxiety, but with opportunity. What are your tricks for dealing with negative feedback? Tweet me at @timherrera or email me at tim@nytimes.com. Have a great week! How to Protect Yourself (and Your Friends) on Facebook There are some practical solutions to safeguard some of your data, like installing software to block web tracking technologies. Thinking About Having a ‘Green’ Funeral? Here’s What to Know A typical American funeral usually involves a few hallmarks we’ve come to expect. But how necessary are those embellishments? How to Enjoy Fine Dining on a Fast Food Budget Go on, treat yourself. We talked to financial and food experts alike for their tips to dine out on a dime. Cleaning Tools for a Tiny Apartment When you live in a small home, pint-sized appliances can help you live well in your limited space. What to Pack for 36 Hours in Memphis History, music, barbecue and beautiful public spaces await you in Memphis, Tenn. Before you go, pack these necessities to make the most of your stay. The 7-Day Financial Tuneup Tidy your finances, optimize your spending and plan for the long term. • Even when your smartphone is facedown, it affects your thinking. • Have issues with Google or Facebook groups? Try this alternative. • Research suggests being kind to yourself may improve your health. Advertisement • Feeling cluttered? Use these habits to create a minimalist workspace. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Editorial By The Editorial Board New York City’s subway struggles are not only ever-present — they appear to be getting worse, according to data that show the system’s on-time performance sinking to a new low in January. Under normal circumstances, this might prompt public servants, seeing the exasperation of their constituents, to act or at least propose changes. Not in New York State government, though. Here, the lawmakers who control the subways through the Metropolitan Transportation Authority continue to twiddle their thumbs. Gov. Andrew Cuomo and state legislators appear to have hit an impasse in their negotiations about a congestion-pricing plan that most experts agree represents the best hope of coming up with the billions of dollars needed to repair and upgrade the subways and regional transit services more broadly. The plan, which would levy fees on private cars, trucks, taxis and other vehicles that use the streets of Manhattan’s central business district during the busiest parts of the day, would also help reduce traffic and air pollution. Cities like London, Singapore and Stockholm have already proved that such systems work. And last summer, after the subway system seemed on the verge of collapse, with derailments and extensive delays becoming increasingly common, Mr. Cuomo got on board, saying that congestion pricing was “an idea whose time has come.” Except that the idea seems to be stuck on a stalled subway car — under the East River, with no cellphone service. Lawmakers plan to finish a state budget this week that might not include important elements of the congestion-pricing plan, which were recommended in January by Mr. Cuomo’s Fix NYC panel of experts. This would be a gross dereliction. It would leave New Yorkers suffering through unnecessarily long and unpredictable commutes for years to come. All that waiting and uncertainty will sap the region’s economy at a time when President Trump, a rich New Yorker who has little need or love for transit, is trying his best to hurt New York by, for example, pressuring Congress to not allocate money to important new Hudson rail tunnels. It would be beyond optimistic to think that the Legislature and Mr. Cuomo will successfully enact the comprehensive congestion-pricing proposal that the region needs with less than three months left in the legislative session. The best that can be hoped for now is that lawmakers will put in place important building blocks that could form the basis of an effective system in the near future. This ought to include surcharges on rides in taxis, “black cars,” and Uber and Lyft vehicles in the busiest parts of Manhattan. In addition, the state ought to authorize the $200 million experts say it will take to design and install the equipment needed to charge cars and trucks fees to use the Manhattan congestion zone. A step-by-step approach can be beneficial. It would let officials at the M.T.A. and other agencies do much of the difficult leg work of creating the system while giving lawmakers more time to figure out details like the level of the congestion charge, off-peak prices and who might get discounts or exemptions. At the same time, public officials ought to identify the specific improvements that the M.T.A. should invest in — the antiquated signaling system and aging rail cars are obvious priorities. Further, lawmakers can change the contracting practices that have led the M.T.A. to spend vastly more on new subway lines than cities like Paris and London, giving voters confidence that congestion-pricing revenue will be used prudently. Mr. Cuomo and state lawmakers might be reluctant to embrace congestion pricing because a Quinnipiac University poll in October found that a majority of New York City voters would prefer not to pay to drive in Manhattan. But the state’s leaders ought to remember another statistic from that poll — 64 percent. That’s the portion of voters who said that subway service is “not so good” or “poor.” Nearly 40 percent held Mr. Cuomo responsible for that sad state. And there’s little doubt that those voters — the city’s millions of frustrated daily commuters still seeking relief — will ultimately hold them accountable for the degradation of the transit system. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  OpinionThe Editorial Board OpinionThe Editorial Board Opinion Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:37 P.M. E.D.T.
 SINGAPORE —  A mix of concern and disappointment met Uber Technologies Inc's [UBER.UL] deal to sell its Southeast Asian business to bigger regional rival Grab, as drivers and users of the ride-hailing firms took in the prospect of sharply reduced competition. The services throughout Asia have long relied on discounts and promotions for consumers and incentives for drivers, which made for tough competition, pushing down profit margins. Grab said the Uber acquisition accelerated its path to profitability in its core transport business, as it would become the most cost-efficient Southeast Asian platform. While drivers were split on which of the two services offered better compensation, they generally expected fares to go up with the reduced competition. Advertisement Rennu Mahajan, who has driven a combined three-and-a-half years for both companies in Singapore, said some of her driver friends were concerned because now they would not be able to switch to the other app. Advertisement "But I am personally not worried. I am quite confident that the fares will go up. If incentives don't go up, fares will increase and we will still get a little bit more," said Mahajan, 57. On its Singapore website, Grab said passengers could expect better service with more drivers and transport options available on one app and that fares would not change. For drivers, it said the benefits and incentives structure remained the same.    According to mobile data analytics firm App Annie, Grab was ranked fifth among top apps based on monthly active users in Singapore in 2017 versus Uber at No. 7. In Indonesia, Go-Jek was at No. 9 just ahead of Grab. REGULATORY CONCERN Whether the merger would eliminate competition in Singapore will be the focus of government review, a spokeswoman for the Land Transport Authority said. "We will ensure that no one single market player dominates the sector to the detriment of commuters and drivers," she said. Malaysia's Land Transport Authority issued a similar statement, saying it "will work closely with relevant consumer and various regulatory agencies such as the Malaysia Competition Commission to safeguard passengers from unfair terms". For both Ricky Tan, who has driven for Uber in Singapore for over a year, and Andre Pereira who uses both services, Grab's ability to exert greater control on prices was cause for concern as it may drive away customers to public transport.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "As the only app left, Grab can easily increase prices," Pereira, 24, said. While there are smaller ride-hailing apps in each market, Grab and Uber have a presence across the region, while Indonesia's popular Go-Jek only operates within its home country. Drivers in Cambodia, one of the last frontiers in the battle of apps, say competition is fierce and the market will not be easy for Grab. Advertisement "A lot of people are used to using Uber, Grab isn't strong yet, Uber is stronger...Grab just arrived," said Krem Sokhom. DISCOUNTS AND PROMOTIONS The apps have also grown in popularity in countries with fewer public transportation options, such as Vietnam. Le Minh Quan, 30, who drives with both Grab and Uber in Vietnam, said: "Without competition they could enforce higher commission or reduce their support, and that's worrying. Before we had a choice, but now we don't." Banker Le Hoang Ngan also uses both. "Whoever gives me discount codes I'll go with it, if not, I'll skip. So one down will just give me less option," he said. In Thailand, ride-hailing services by privately owned vehicles are illegal but many drivers work with both Uber and Grab. There was no shortage of drivers and riders who liked the service that Grab had to offer. "Grab provides enough promotions for my liking, and even if sometimes they don't, I don't mind paying the full price," said Choltanutkun Tun-atiruj, a magazine writer, who said she preferred Grab’s services and relied on it in her everyday life. "I prefer convenience and what's the quickest, easiest." (Reporting by Aradhana Aravindan and Dewey Sim in SINGAPORE, Mai Nguyen in HANOI, Prak Chan Thul in PHNOM PENH, Patpicha Tanakasempipat in BANGKOK; Editing by Jack Kim) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:09 A.M. E.D.T.
 TOKYO —  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe wants to repeal a Japanese law requiring broadcasters to show impartiality, a step critics fear will lead to sensational reporting and polarize views, just as a similar move has been blamed for doing in the United States. Abe's government has drafted changes to Japan's broadcast law and plans to include them in reform proposals as early as May, laying the groundwork for future legislation, three government sources told Reuters. The sources, who asked for anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter, said the draft includes repealing the law's article 4, which requires license holders to show contrasting political views and is considered Japan's version of the U.S. Fairness Doctrine. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission decided to repeal the doctrine in 1987 after criticism that it restricted broadcasters' freedom. The move, finalised in 2011, is widely credited with helping give rise to politically charged radio talk shows and news programs. Advertisement "Without having these safeguards, media outlets become more susceptible to market forces,"  said Victor Pickard, associate professor of communication at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. "The U.S. could serve as a cautionary tale." Advertisement SUPPORT FOR ABE FALLING Abe has said he wants to overhaul the broadcast law to put traditional television channels on equal footing with online media, which are not restricted by article 4. The law does not apply to print media. In a parliament session in February, he cited his appearance on AbemaTV, a livestreaming service operated by Internet advertising agency CyberAgent and TV Asahi that despite its name has no financial or other links to Abe. During his appearance, he was allowed to air his views without the need for contrasting views to be presented. "As the division between traditional and digital media become meaningless, we should make for bold revisions to broadcast businesses to make the best use of airwaves, which are a public asset," Abe said. But critics see it as a more sinister move, saying Abe wants to stack airwaves with pro-government messaging to bolster his popularity and push through a controversial revision of Japan's pacifist constitution. He is facing pressure over a suspected cover-up of a cronyism scandal, which could dash his hopes of winning a third three-year term in a leadership election in September. "What Prime Minister Abe wants to do is to advertise his views," said lawmaker Soichiro Okuno from the opposition Party of Hope. Television is still a popular and trusted medium in Japan; there is one public broadcaster, NHK. Government data shows the average household spends 168 minutes watching TV per week day, compared with less than 100 minutes online and 10 minutes reading newspapers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The same survey showed that 70 percent of people believed information in newspapers to be trustworthy, and 66 percent rated television trustworthy. Around 34 percent thought the Internet was a credible source of information.   FAIRNESS DOCTRINE Conservative politicians have used the broadcast law in recent years to criticize television broadcasters as biased against them. Advertisement Sanae Takaichi, a member of Abe's conservative Liberal Democratic Party and former minister of internal affairs and communications, said in 2016 that television stations could be shut down if they repeatedly showed political bias. Reporters Without Borders has criticized Abe's government for passing a tough secrecy act that critics have said could muzzle media. Japan ranks number 72 in its World Press Freedom Index, behind Malawi and Hungary. The resignation of some high-profile news readers known for taking a critical look at Abe's policies in recent years has raised speculation that broadcasters were bowing to pressure from politicians. "We have a bit of a twisted situation... You have a government that's saying, 'Here's more freedom, let's do away with this restriction,'" said Kozo Nagata, who teaches media and sociology studies at Musashi University. "But you cannot just tweak article 4 without understanding the history behind the law," he said, referring to its original aim of preventing media from being used as a propaganda machine. Most broadcasters have opposed the move. "Now that dealing with 'fake news' is becoming a common social issue all around the world, the role of media in providing balanced information is greater than ever," said Hiroshi Inoue, chairman of The Japan Commercial Broadcasters Association and honorary chairman of TBS Holdings, which owns a major commercial TV channel. (Reporting by Yoshiyasu Shida and Ritsuko Ando; Editing by Gerry Doyle) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:35 A.M. E.D.T.
 STOCKHOLM —  Volvo Car Group will make cars for Lynk & Co at its plant in Ghent, Belgium from late next year, it said on Monday. The Lynk & Co brand is co-owned by Volvo Cars' owner, China's Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co Ltd, and its two carmakers Volvo and Geely Auto. It began sales in China last year, with Europe set to follow in 2019 and the United States in 2020. "We see a big potential for this new brand entering the European market and we are happy to give Lynk & Co the support of Volvo's technological and industrial expertise," Volvo Cars Chief Executive Hakan Samuelsson said in a statement. Production of the Lynk & Co cars in Ghent will help underpin production volumes, cost efficiency and employment at the plant, the company said. Ghent, which employs about 5,000 people, and Torslanda, in western Sweden, are Volvo's two European plants. Advertisement A senior Lynk & Co official told Reuters last year the brand was considering building its vehicles in Ghent as well as at the factory Volvo has under construction in South Carolina. The joint production with Lynk & Co will generate economies of scale related to the common platform, or compact modular architecture, being used by both brands, Volvo said. Advertisement (Reporting by Niklas Pollard; Editing by Robin Pomeroy) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:56 A.M. E.D.T.
 BEIJING —  A look at recent developments in the South China Sea, where China is pitted against smaller neighbors in multiple disputes over islands, coral reefs and lagoons in waters crucial for global commerce and rich in fish and potential oil and gas reserves: ___ EDITOR'S NOTE: This is a weekly look at the latest developments in the South China Sea, the location of several territorial conflicts that have raised tensions in the region. ___ CHINA SENDS BOMBERS China's air force says it recently sent some of its most advanced fighters and bombers for "joint combat patrols" over the South China Sea. Spokesman for the People's Liberation Army Air Force Shen Jinke was quoted on Sunday as saying that the planes involved included H-6K long-range strategic bombers. The bombers are considered "standoff" weapons that carry the DH-20 land-attack cruise missile, giving it the ability to hit targets as far away as Australia. Russia and the U.S. are currently the only other countries able to launch cruise missiles from the air. Advertisement Since entering service, the H-6K has flown multiple training missions over the western Pacific and patrols over the South China Sea. Advertisement Shen said Su-35 fighter jets and other aircraft he did not identify also flew in the patrols. The Russian-made Su-35 has greatly enhanced China's ability to conduct operations at greater distances and its pilots have grown increasingly proficient through training under actual combat conditions, according to Shen's statement posted on the air force's official microblog. Shen also said the air force recently sent H-6K bombers and Russian-made S-30 fighters through the Miyako Strait north of Taiwan for combat training in the western Pacific. ___ CHINA PROTESTS US SHIP China has protested to the U.S. over its sending of a guided missile destroyer into waters near Chinese-claimed territory, saying it dispatched two vessels of its own to warn the ship off. The USS Mustin "arbitrarily entered waters surrounding islands and reefs in the South China Sea," Defense Ministry spokesman Ren Guoqiang was quoted as saying on Friday by the official Xinhua News Agency. The incident constitutes a "serious political and military provocation," Ren was quoted as saying. Such actions "harm military relations between the two countries, causing close encounters between the countries' air forces and navies, which could lead to misjudgment and even accidents," he said. The Pentagon generally declines to comment on such freedom of navigation operations, known as "FONOPs," aimed at asserting the U.S. military's right to sail, fly and operate anywhere that is legal under international law. The U.S. does not take a stance on sovereignty claims in the South China Sea, but has strongly criticized China's building of man-made islands equipped with airfields and other military infrastructure. Advertisement ___ FRENCH FONOP REPORT A report says the French navy declined to either confirm or deny that one of its surveillance frigates conducted a freedom of navigation operation while transiting the South China Sea.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The website Navy Recognition said Friday the Vendemiaire, home-ported in the French territory of New Caledonia, is on a two-month cruise in the area that has included a joint operation with the USS Murphy, an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer. It said that included the establishment of a data link and secure communications and the deployment of a joint visit, board, search and seizure team often used in anti-piracy or anti-smuggling operations. The French ship also make a visit to Brunei, where it conducted a joint search and rescue drill, helicopter operations and other maneuvers, the website said. China regularly criticized U.S. FONOPs but has remained largely quiet about similar missions by ships and aircraft from other countries. ___ PHILIPPINE -CHINA'GOLDEN PERIOD' Philippine Foreign Secretary Alan Peter Cayetano hailed a "golden period" in his country's relations with China despite differences over the South China Sea, amid discussions over possible joint development projects in the disputed waters. Cayetano made the remarks in Beijing on Wednesday after meeting with his counterpart Wang Yi, who said offshore oil and gas exploration were among issues discussed. China and the Philippines have long tussled over islands and reefs in the South China Sea and since taking office in 2013, Chinese President Xi Jinping has taken a hard line on issues of sovereignty. Kicking off his second five-year term on Tuesday, Xi declared in a fervently nationalistic address to the ceremonial legislature that China would never cede "one inch" of its territory. Advertisement China rejected an international tribunal's 2016 ruling invalidating much of its claim to virtually the entire South China Sea in a case brought by the Philippines. Cayetano also said the Philippines' China-friendly President Rodrigo Duterte will attend the Boao regional economic forum on China's South China Sea island province of Hainan next month. He said the Philippines looks forward to welcoming Xi for a state visit at a time to be determined. ___ Associated Press writer Yanan Wang contributed to this report. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 10:02 A.M. E.D.T.
 For years, identity theft expert Eva Velasquez warned parents that freezing their children's credit reports was difficult, problematic and probably unnecessary. Velasquez, chief executive officer of the nonprofit Identity Theft Resource Center, has since changed her mind. Or rather, the sheer volume and severity of database breaches — including last year's breathtakingly huge compromise at Equifax credit bureau — changed it for her. She now recommends that parents "strongly consider" credit freezes for their kids. "The landscape has changed," Velasquez says. What hasn't changed, unfortunately, is the difficulty of getting a credit freeze for someone younger than 18. Sometimes it's impossible, depending on where you live. Credit freezes allow you to restrict access to your credit reports, preventing identity thieves from opening new, fraudulent accounts in your name. Credit freezes have been available to U.S. adults since 2007. Advertisement Children, however, typically aren't supposed to have credit reports. If they do, someone has probably stolen their identity. All three major credit bureaus allow parents to freeze credit reports when a child's identity has been used by a thief. Advertisement Many states, though, don't require the bureaus to offer credit freezes if a child's identity hasn't already been compromised. That could change: A Senate-approved bill to loosen Dodd-Frank banking regulations includes a clause that would require credit bureaus to create files for those under 18 at a parent's request. Once a file is created, it can be frozen. The states that currently require bureaus to create reports for those under 18 in response to a freeze request are Alaska, Arizona, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Only one credit bureau, Equifax, will create and freeze a report at a parent's request regardless of where the parent lives. Equifax isn't being cooperative as a mea culpa for its sins. This was the bureau's policy even before last year's breach , when thieves made off with about 148 million people's information including names, birthdates, Social Security numbers and some driver's license numbers. Experian and TransUnion, the other two major bureaus, still insist that parents shouldn't rush to shut down their kids files. "A proactive file freeze is a drastic solution that we only recommend when a child's identity is being used fraudulently," is how TransUnion puts it. That stance is, to put it mildly, outdated. No one should have to wait to become a victim when prevention is possible.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And children may be at greater risk than adults. Carnegie Mellon University's CyLab found the identity theft rate for kids was 51 times higher than that for adults, according to a 2011 report. The report found 10.2 percent of the 42,232 children studied from 2009 to 2010 had someone else using their Social Security numbers. The rate for adults was 0.2 percent. The youngest victim was five months old. One teenager had over $725,000 in debt on 42 credit accounts opened by eight people. The debt included mortgages, auto loans and collection accounts for medical bills, utilities and credit cards. Advertisement Identity thieves target children because the crimes can go undiscovered for years. Often bogus credit histories don't come to light until the victims apply for their first credit card, apartment or job — and get rejected. Then, they can face huge battles to clear their names after years of credit abuse. Creating a credit report for those younger than 18 can create problems of its own. The report links the child's name to a Social Security number, information criminals could use for other kinds of fraud that don't involve credit checks, such as employment or medical identity theft. Other issues are that freezes for children under 18 often cost money to create ($3 to $15 per bureau, depending on the state) and to lift ($2 to $12), they can't be set up online and parents have to keep track of the personal identification number needed to lift the reports when the child is older than 18 and needs credit. A freeze also won't typically prevent the child's Social Security number from being used for synthetic identity theft, where thieves use real and fake information to create new identities. Velasquez in the past discouraged parents from trying to create credit reports when they didn't exist, fearing it would "muddy the waters." But given the rising risks, parents should consider doing what they can, including credit freezes, to protect their kids, Velasquez says. "The good outweighs the bad now with all these data compromises," she says. _______ This column was provided to The Associated Press by the personal finance website NerdWallet . Liz Weston is a columnist at NerdWallet, a certified financial planner and author of "Your Credit Score." Email: lweston@nerdwallet.com Twitter: @lizweston. RELATED LINK: NerdWallet: How to freeze your credit https://nerd.me/how-to-freeze-credit We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:11 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  GKN promised on Monday a quick cash handout for shareholders if they back a sweetened offer for its auto business, raising the stakes in its battle to fend off a hostile bid for the entire company. In one of Britain's most tightly fought corporate battles for years, shareholders have until 1200 GMT on Thursday to accept the hostile bid from turnaround specialist Melrose, or GKN's plan to split off its auto unit and combine it with U.S. group Dana, leaving GKN focused on aerospace. Melrose's bid has so far split GKN shareholders, with two of the largest publicly coming out on opposite sides. Analysts predict the deal will go down to the wire. On Monday, Dana increased the cash portion of its bid for GKN's Driveline auto business by $140 million. The bid values Driveline at $6.1 billion, including debt. Advertisement In response, GKN said it would return up to 700 million pounds in cash to shareholders as soon as practicable, as part of an already announced 2.5 billion pound cash return program from the Driveline sale and the planned divestment of its powder metallurgy unit. Advertisement That compares with Melrose's offer of 81 pence in cash for each GKN share plus 1.69 new Melrose shares, which would hand shareholders 1.4 billion pounds and 60 percent of the enlarged Melrose - a bid worth 7.8 billion pounds in total. Should they back GKN management's plan, GKN shareholders would end up with 47.25 percent of the enlarged Dana group, which would be listed in both the U.S. and London. Peel Hunt analyst Harry Philips said the sweetened bid from  Dana showed Driveline had been undervalued, the deal hurriedly made, and clarity was needed on the promised returns. "This (the quick 700 million pound payout) was not part of the original proposition, so this represents a change in calibration and we think that GKN needs to redefine the make up of the 2.5 billion pound return proposition," he said. A mainstay of Britain's engineering sector, GKN makes parts for the U.S. aviation industry, such as the Boeing 737 jet and Black Hawk helicopter, as well as components for Volkswagen and Ford cars. Illustrating the bitter nature of the takeover battle, it featured on the front page of Britain's Daily Mail newspaper on Monday: "Don't let Vultures destroy a British colossus", it said, noting some shareholders did not have a long-term interest in the company that helped make Spitfire fighter aircraft in World War Two. A source close to the bid battle said short-term merger arbitrage funds could own 20-25 percent of GKN shares.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. SHAREHOLDERS SPLIT While the hostile bid has prompted criticism from politicians - concerned that after improving GKN, Melrose could break it up and sell parts to foreign buyers - the decision now rests with shareholders. Advertisement Elliott Advisors, which has a 3.8 percent interest, making it one of GKN's biggest shareholders, on Friday backed Melrose's deal, saying it did not trust GKN management to deliver the "profound" cultural shift needed to meet new targets while driving through two major asset sales. Columbia Threadneedle, with a 3.4 percent stake according to Reuters data, has said it will reject Melrose's offer. GKN said that following Dana's improved offer for its auto business it would receive $1.77 billion in cash after deducting $1.0 billion for the transfer of a pension deficit to the combined Dana-GKN Driveline group. "We believe that the true value of GKN is over 5 pounds per share and that Melrose's final offer fundamentally undervalues your company and should be rejected," Chairman Mike Turner told shareholders. The offer from Melrose values GKN at 451 pence per share in cash and shares, based on Melrose's share price on Monday. GKN's stock was trading at 431.5 pence at 1200 GMT. In a separate statement, GKN was forced to retract comments made to Sunday newspapers in which it said it thought investors would back its plan. It said the comments had not been verified. Melrose, prevented under UK rules from improving its offer as it has said its current bid is final, dismissed the sweetened Dana deal as "a tweak" and criticized GKN's management for making claims over shareholder support. "The last-minute attempts of claiming shareholder support that then had to be retracted is a sign of desperation," Melrose's Chairman Christopher Miller said. "We urge shareholders to cast their votes for a proven Melrose team with an outstanding track record and a plan to revitalize GKN." Advertisement ($1 = 0.7050 pounds) (Reporting by Kate Holton and Sarah Young; Editing by Guy Faulconbridge and Mark Potter) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:53 P.M. E.D.T.
 CHICAGO —  Aaron Judge. Cody Bellinger. Andrew Benintendi. Paul DeJong. The list goes on and on. Last year's rookie class was one of the best in baseball history. Topping that group of sluggers will be quite a chore, but here is a closer look at some touted prospects hoping to make a name for themselves this year: —RHP/DH Shohei Ohtani, Los Angeles Angels: The 23-year-old Ohtani is trying to become the first player in nearly 100 years to play regularly as a pitcher and hitter, but he had mixed results during spring training. Ohtani spent the previous five seasons with the Nippon Ham Fighters, showing off a big fastball and a powerful bat. —OF Ronald Acuna, Atlanta Braves: The future is now for the crown jewel of Atlanta's loaded farm system after Matt Kemp was traded to the Dodgers in December. The 20-year-old Acuna will begin the season at Triple-A Gwinnett, pushing back his eligibility for arbitration, but it's only a matter of time before he is up with the Braves after he hit .325 with 21 homers, 82 RBIs and 44 steals over three minor league stops last year. —OF Victor Robles, Washington Nationals: Robles, another athletic 20-year-old outfielder in the NL East, made his major league debut last September and got into two playoff games in the first round against the Cubs. The Nationals have Bryce Harper, Adam Eaton and Michael A. Taylor in the outfield, but Robles could get into the mix if there are any injuries. —OF Eloy Jimenez, Chicago White Sox: Jimenez, who was slowed this spring by left knee tendinitis, is widely regarded as baseball's top hitting prospect. He was acquired in last summer's Jose Quintana trade with the crosstown Cubs — destined to be a barroom debate in Chicago for years to come — and batted .312 with 19 homers and 65 RBIs for three minor league teams in 2017. Advertisement —C Francisco Mejia, Cleveland Indians: Cleveland loves Mejia's bat so much it is trying the catcher in a couple different spots to help carve out a place for him in the majors. He played third base in the Arizona Fall League and will begin this year with Triple-A Columbus so he can spend time in the outfield. The Indians have a strong catching tandem with Roberto Perez and Yan Gomes, but Mejia could be back in the majors this summer if he shows the ability to play multiple positions. Advertisement —RHP Alex Reyes, St. Louis Cardinals: The 23-year-old Reyes could return in May after he hurt his elbow in spring training a year ago, leading to Tommy John surgery. Whether he works as a starter or reliever, he could provide a big lift for St. Louis after he went 4-1 with a 1.57 ERA and 52 strikeouts in 46 innings in his first major league action in 2016.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. —INFs Gleyber Torres and Miguel Andujar, New York Yankees: Not a lot of room in New York's infield after the Yankees traded for Brandon Drury and signed Neil Walker, but Torres and Andujar could help at some point this summer. Torres hit .309 in 23 games with Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre last year before he was shelved by a season-ending elbow injury, and Andujar looked great this spring. —RHP Walker Buehler and OF Alex Verdugo, Los Angeles Dodgers: The hard-throwing Buehler and Verdugo will begin the year with Triple-A Oklahoma City, but they could play a role as Los Angeles tries for its sixth straight NL West title. Buehler had a 7.71 ERA in eight relief appearances as a September call-up for the Dodgers, and Verdugo also made his major league debut last year. —OF Jesse Winker, Cincinnati Reds: The 24-year-old Winker hit .298 with seven homers and 15 RBIs in 47 games in his first major league action last summer. The rebuilding Reds have a bit of a crowd in the outfield with Adam Duvall, Scott Schebler and Billy Hamilton, but they are going to want to see if Winker can deliver on his potential. —OF Austin Hays, Baltimore Orioles: Hays, who was hampered by a shoulder injury this spring, was promoted to the majors for the first time last September and hit .217 with a homer and eight RBIs in 20 games. The 22-year-old Hays, a third-round pick in the 2016 draft out of Jacksonville University, has big-time power, belting 32 homers in the minors last season. ___ ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:26 A.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  With passage of an enormous budget bill, the GOP-controlled Congress all but wrapped up its legislating for the year. But will it be enough to convince voters to give Republicans another term at the helm? In two big ways, Republicans have done what they promised. They passed a long sought tax overhaul bill that slashed tax rates. They've rolled back regulations, in ways they claim are boosting the economy. In the Senate, they confirmed a justice to the Supreme Court. But there are signs Americans wanted more: immigration reforms, gun control legislation, even an infrastructure plan that President Donald Trump promised voters. Tax cuts, for now, will have to do. "It's very clear that tax reform was going to be the biggest legislative crown jewel of this Congress," said Matt Gorman, the spokesman for the House GOP's campaign arm, the National Republican Congressional Committee. "That is a massive centerpiece of our campaign." Advertisement But polls swing wildly these days, strategists said. Voters are rarely focused for too long on single issues that can make or break campaigns, as when Republicans seized control of the House in 2010 amid the economic downturn or Democrats pushed to the majority in 2006 over opposition to the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and congressional ethics scandals. Advertisement Trump's mixed messages on the GOP's accomplishments only make the campaigning more difficult. At the White House on Friday, he toyed with a veto of the $1.3 trillion budget package, complaining it lacked his immigration deal and smacked of overspending, before ultimately signing it. Such shifting views leave Republicans without a reliable partner as they try to push through political headwinds in what's expected to be a tough battle for majority control of the House and Senate. Lawmakers left town for a two-week recess that marks the unofficial end of the legislating season having shelved resolution of other issues. Congress failed to pass legislation to curb rising health insurance premiums or protect young immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation, two issues that have stirred voters this year. And ahead of the nationwide "March for Our Lives" protests against gun violence, lawmakers took modest steps to boost school safety funds and improve compliance with the federal gun purchase background check system. Kris Brown, co-president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, said the measures are "just not enough." "The American people have been screaming from the rooftops for real, bold change to fight against" tragedies such as the Florida and Las Vegas shootings, Brown said. "We have seen the consequences of Congress's inaction." Congress' spring agenda is thin. It includes modest plans to finish a banking bill that rolls back some of the regulations put in place after the financial crisis and pass a big farm bill that sets agriculture and school nutrition policies. The Senate also has to begin confirmation hearings for Trump's nominees for secretary of state and CIA director. The one legislative lift will be another spending bill when the one Trump signed into law expires at the end of September. But it may bring more political risk than reward for Republicans, since conservatives largely sided with the president against this one, and could pose a more serious threat of voter revolt in the fall.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Strategists say it will be up to candidates to make the case that GOP's signature legislative accomplishment is worth their re-election. Advertisement Democrats have been hammering on the tax law as a giveaway to big business, in part because the steep reduction in corporate rates, from 35 percent to 21 percent, is permanent while the reduced rates for individuals and other provisions for families, including expanded child tax credits, expire in coming years. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi has derided the lopsided benefits for households as "crumbs" — a quip Republicans eagerly throw back at Democrats. To prop up public opinion of the GOP's top accomplishment, millions are being spent by outside groups. American Action Network, which is aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, is unleashing more than $30 million in ads, and the network backed by the influential Koch brothers will spend more than $20 million, heaping praise on lawmakers who voted for the tax cuts and informing voters about those who didn't. And with passage of tax cuts so important to the GOP election effort, Republicans might take the unusual step of trying to pass them again. "We think there's more we can do," Ryan said. House GOP leaders are seriously considering legislation this summer — "Tax Cuts 2" — that would try to build on the original bill that became law in December by making the individual tax cuts permanent. A do-over tax cuts bill is not expected to pass this Congress. But setting up another showdown accomplishes political goals for Republicans by turning attention back to the tax law, and pushing Democrats into the uncomfortable position of voting against it, again. Americans for Prosperity, one of the groups in the Koch network, launched an ad campaign urging Congress to fortify the law by making tax cuts permanent. "More needs to be done," the group says on a website for its advocacy. "Even if there are things that get passed between now and the fall, the bottom line is the single most important piece of legislation is going to be the tax bill," said veteran strategist David Winston, who advises House and Senate GOP leadership. "That defines what this Congress is about." ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Paul Krugman In 2010 an explosion at a coal mine operated by Massey Energy killed 29 men. In 2015 Don Blankenship, the company’s former C.E.O., was sent to prison for conspiring to violate mine safety standards. In 2018, Blankenship appears to have a real chance at becoming the Republican candidate for senator from West Virginia. Blankenship is one of four Republicans with criminal convictions running for office this year, several of whom may well win their party’s nominations. And there is a much broader list of Republican politicians facing credible accusations of huge ethical lapses who nonetheless emerged victorious in G.O.P. primaries, ranging from Roy Moore to, well, Donald Trump. To be sure, there have been plenty of crooked Democrats. But usually the revelation of their crookedness ended their political careers. What’s striking about today’s Republican landscape is that people who are obvious crooks, con men or worse continue to attract strong support from the party’s base. Moore narrowly lost in Alabama’s special election, but he received 91 percent of the votes of self-identified Republicans. And Trump, although unprecedentedly unpopular for a president at this stage of his term, continues to receive overwhelming support from the G.O.P. base. Some Republican politicians have openly admitted that this makes the party’s congressional wing unwilling to hold Trump accountable for even the most spectacular malfeasance, up to and including possible collusion with a hostile foreign power. What’s going on here? I don’t think it’s an accident that the modern G.O.P. contains so many crooks and that these crooks seem to thrive in intraparty politics. On the contrary, the success of people like Blankenship — or Trump — was an inevitable consequence of the political strategy Republicans have followed for decades. For the simple truth is that ever since Reagan, Republicans have basically played a con game on American voters. Their sustained, invariant agenda has been upward redistribution of income: cutting taxes on the rich while weakening the social safety net. This agenda is unpopular: Only a small minority of Americans wants to see tax cuts for the wealthy, and an even smaller minority wants cuts to major social programs. Yet Republicans have won elections partly by denying the reality of their policy agenda, but mainly by posing as defenders of traditional social values — above all, that greatest of American traditions, racism. And this sustained reliance on the big con has, over time, exerted a strong selection effect both on the party’s leadership and on its base. G.O.P. politicians tend disproportionately to be con men (and in some cases, con women), because playing the party’s political game requires both a willingness to and a talent for saying one thing while doing another. And the party’s base consists disproportionately of the easily conned — those who are easily fooled by claims that Those People are the problem and don’t notice how much the true Republican agenda hurts them. The point is that Trumpism was more or less fated to happen. Trump’s crude racism and blatant dishonesty are only exaggerated versions of what his party has been selling for decades, while his substantive policy agenda — slashing taxes on corporations and the wealthy, taking health care away from lower-income families — is utterly orthodox. Even his protectionism is less of a departure from Republican norms than people imagine. George W. Bush put tariffs on steel, while Reagan limited imports of Japanese autos. Cutting taxes on the rich is a fundamental G.O.P. principle; free trade isn’t. Once you realize the extent to which Republican politics has been shaped by the big con, three implications follow. First, there will be no redemption from within. Principled, ethical politicians won’t reclaim the party from the likes of Trump, because they’re not what the base wants: The modern G.O.P. is no country for honest men. Con artists will continue to rule until or unless the party loses big, repeatedly, and spends years in the political wilderness. Second, however, the party is indeed vulnerable, because there’s always the risk that voters will catch on to its con. Republican attacks on health care, not lurid scandals, seem to have been the biggest factor behind Democratic victories in special elections. And in November this backlash could give Democrats not just one or both houses of Congress, but also control of many state governments. But what if it doesn’t? Here’s the third implication, which should scare you: The nature of the modern G.O.P.’s game gives it a bias against democracy. After all, one way to protect yourself against voters who figure out what you’re up to is to stop them from voting. Vote suppression and extreme gerrymandering are already key parts of Republican strategy, but what we’ve seen so far may be just the beginning. And if you think that G.O.P. leaders would balk at gross electoral manipulation, you haven’t been paying attention. There used to be Republicans like that, but they’ve been gone for a long time. Follow me on Twitter (@PaulKrugman) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:47 A.M. E.D.T.
 HARARE, Zimbabwe —  Police in Zimbabwe are investigating a case of alleged ivory smuggling linked to the wife of former leader Robert Mugabe, a police spokeswoman said Monday. Authorities opened an investigation after a whistleblower came forward with information and no one has yet been charged, according to spokeswoman Charity Charamba. "We are still investigating; maybe after the investigations we can ascertain the exact role of the former first lady," Charamba said. The Mugabes could not immediately be reached for comment. Grace Mugabe's political ambitions intensified the national discontent that led to a military takeover and her 94-year-old husband's resignation in November. A former confidant of Robert Mugabe, Emmerson Mnangagwa, became president and has promised more transparency and accountability in the government. Advertisement Zimbabwe's national parks and wildlife agency has provided police with documents in the alleged ivory smuggling case, agency spokesman Tinashe Farawo said. When her husband was president, Grace Mugabe and senior members of her staff allegedly forced parks officials to sign export permits for ivory pieces without following procedure, Farawo said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "For example, in October last year, one of our senior officers was threatened after refusing to sign a permit for pieces that were not physically there. He was hesitant to sign for ivory that he had not seen, but he ended up signing after intense pressure and threats from the former first lady's office," he said. "The ivory would be smuggled under the guise of being gifts for dignitaries, but in many cases the so-called gifts were never shown to national parks. National parks has to physically see the ivory before the export permit is issued," Farawo said. Advertisement He said the exact quantity of ivory that was allegedly smuggled was being verified. Zimbabwe's national parks teem with elephants and other big game. The wildlife agency says close to 900 elephants have been poached since 2013. The southern African country is estimated to have more than 82,000 elephants. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:41 A.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Swansea City boss Carlos Carvalhal believes Manchester United counterpart Jose Mourinho thrives "when he is fighting" amid talk of rifts at Old Trafford. Mourinho has been outspoken in his criticism of several United players including record signing Paul Pogba and Luke Shaw, who was substituted at halftime in the FA Cup victory over Brighton and Hove Albion earlier this month. Carvalhal accepts he shares some similarities with his fellow Portuguese Mourinho but said the former Chelsea and Real Madrid boss uses a more confrontational approach and is at his most dangerous when presented a challenge. "I like Mourinho and he knows that I like him," Carvalhal told British media. "I spent a week at Manchester United when Alex Ferguson was there, then a week watching Mourinho at Chelsea. I also went to Real Madrid. Advertisement "I tried to learn with the best. He has a big self-confidence, like I do. You need that. But he is a completely different personality to me. He likes confrontation. He likes to fight with people. And he's very good when he is fighting.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I am completely different. I like to keep far away from the fight. I like to win, but, if someone tries to fight with me, they will find they are fighting with themselves." Advertisement Carvalhal is preparing Swansea for a trip to United on Saturday and knows a surprise victory would be crucial in their battle for Premier League survival with eight matches remaining. The Welsh club are currently 14th in the standings and three point clear of relegation zone, while second-placed United are 16 points adrift of runaway leaders Manchester City. (Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 25, 2018, 11:20 P.M. E.D.T.
 HONG KONG —  Noble Group Ltd warned on Monday that it would begin insolvency proceedings if the beleaguered commodity trader's $3.4 billion (£2.4 billion) debt restructuring proposal was not approved by shareholders. Noble's debt restructuring process is seen as critical for the firm's survival. But the deal has been opposed by some bondholders and shareholders, including Goldilocks Investment Co, which has an 8.1 percent stake in the firm. Goldilocks has filed a lawsuit with a Singapore court against the commodities trader and some of its former and current senior executives, alleging they inflated Noble's assets. Defending its proposal, Singapore-listed Noble said on Monday that the support of its senior creditors and trade finance banks depended on a successful debt restructuring. Advertisement "In the absence of such support and a successful restructuring, the company would no longer be a going concern and the board would ... be required to seek insolvency protection," it said in a filing to the Singapore exchange. Advertisement "Under such circumstances, existing shareholders would not receive any recovery on their shares in the company." Any insolvency proceedings would take place in the United Kingdom, aiming to maintain more value for the stakeholders than would be available on a liquidation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Once Asia's largest commodity trader, Hong Kong-headquartered Noble was plunged into crisis in February 2015 when Iceberg Research questioned its books. Noble has stood by its accounting. Noble has been negotiating a debt-for-equity swap for months after selling billions of dollars of assets, reporting big losses due to a severe commodities downturn, and cutting hundreds of jobs over the past three years. In its latest statement, Noble said its board was satisfied there was a reasonable prospect the restructuring could be completed, allowing the firm to continue as going concern, given the support of senior creditors for existing management. Under the deal, Noble is seeking to halve its senior debt and hand over 70 percent of the restructured business to creditors. Earlier this month, Noble said it had finalised the restructuring agreement with a group of senior creditors holding 46 percent of its debt, and was in talks with others. (Reporting by Sumeet Chatterjee; editing by Richard Pullin) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:50 A.M. E.D.T.
 PARIS —  LVMH's Louis Vuitton brand, the biggest revenue driver at the French luxury goods group, said on Monday it had hired Virgil Abloh, the founder of streetwear label Off-White, to design its menswear collections. The appointment follows internal reshuffles at LVMH that included switching menswear designers at sister brand Christian Dior. Abloh, a 37-year-old American who has worked as hip-hop singer Kanye West's creative director, launched his first men's and womenswear collections through his Off-White label four years ago. The brand is known for its luxury urban style, featuring hoodies that start at 400 pounds ($570), at a time when high-end brands are adopting some streetwear looks to attract younger shoppers. Advertisement Abloh, who interned with the rapper at LVMH's Fendi label, takes over from Briton Kim Jones - also known for introducing a streetwear look at Vuitton and who was last week named as the new designer of menswear at Dior.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Vuitton chief executive Michael Burke said in a statement that Abloh's "innate creativity and disruptive approach have made him so relevant, not just in the world of fashion but in popular culture today." Advertisement Menswear is typically a much smaller contributor to sales than women's fashion for big brands, but LVMH is shaking up men's collections across a number of its firms, as well as revamping the management of several labels. Its French label Celine aims to at least double revenues under incoming designer Hedi Slimane as it branches into menswear and perfumes as well as growing online. ($1 = 0.7048 pounds) (Reporting by Sarah White; editing by John Stonestreet) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Personal Health  By                     
 JANE E. BRODY
 
MARCH 26, 2018
 About 15 years ago, when my cholesterol level began an inexplicable climb, I tried a slew of suggested dietary remedies that included eating more fish, along with a daily supplement of fish oil, which research at the time suggested would help prevent heart attacks and strokes. Alas, my body disdained my efforts and I finally had to take a statin. But I continued to follow a heart-healthy diet laden with vegetables and fish and took 1,200 milligrams of fish oil every night. I now suspect that those thousands of gel-covered capsules I’ve swallowed over the years may have done little more than enrich the pockets of supplement producers and sellers. A number of extensive analyses have been conducted, some supporting and others refuting the value of fish oils to the cardiovascular system, along with studies of other purported health benefits that also have had mixed results. The supplements contain omega-3 fatty acids, the polyunsaturated oils prominent in fatty cold water fish like salmon, sardines and mackerel. In many observational studies, people who regularly consumed fish two or more times a week were less likely to suffer heart attacks, strokes and cardiovascular deaths than those who ate fish infrequently or not at all. Advertisement Enthusiasm for fish oils originated with reports decades ago that Eskimos, who consume lots of cold water fish, have surprisingly low rates of heart disease despite a diet very high in animal fat. Advertisement “This idea has since been pretty discredited; we really don’t know if the Eskimos got heart disease or not,” said Malden C. Nesheim, emeritus professor of nutrition at Cornell University, who chaired an Institute of Medicine committee assessing the risks and benefits of seafood in the early 2000s. “I’ve been an omega-3 skeptic since doing this study.” Nonetheless, large population studies with solid data both on the participants’ diets and causes of disease and death bolstered the beliefs that eating fish often was a heart-healthy practice linked to reduced rates of cardiovascular disease. For example, a comprehensive analysis conducted by Dr. Dariush Mozaffarian and Eric Rimm of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health found that eating two servings of fatty fish a week — equal to about two grams of omega-3 fatty acids — lowered the risk of death from heart disease by more than a third and total deaths by 17 percent. Omega-3s in fish clearly have effects that can account for such findings. They protect against abnormal heart rhythms, lower blood pressure and heart rate and improve the function of blood vessels. They may also lower heart-damaging triglycerides and counter inflammation, a known risk to the heart. The question is whether the observed cardiovascular benefits often found among fish eaters is due solely to the oils in fish or to some other characteristics of seafood or to still other factors common to those who eat lots of fish, like eating less meat or pursuing a healthier lifestyle over all. Whatever the answer, it does not seem to be fish oil supplements. In the latest report, published online on Jan. 31 in JAMA Cardiology, an international team headed by Dr. Robert Clarke of the University of Oxford analyzed the combined results of 10 trials of fish oil supplements involving 77,917 older adults at high risk for cardiovascular disease. At doses ranging from 226 milligrams to 1,800 milligrams per day of omega-3 fatty acids, no significant protection against “major vascular events” was found overall among the participants or for any subgroup, like those with prior heart disease or diabetes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. While this does not necessarily mean the supplements are unhelpful, it does suggest a more nuanced consideration of who, if anyone, may benefit from taking fish oils and whether we all might be better off simply eating more fish, even though that too can have some downsides as well as benefits. (At the moment, I’m still doing both.) For example, large predatory fish like shark, swordfish, king mackerel, tilefish and albacore tuna can contain high levels of methyl mercury, a toxin that would override any health benefit, especially for the developing brains of fetuses and young children as well as for adults, Dr. Nesheim and Marion Nestle, professor emerita of nutrition, food studies and public health at New York University, noted in 2014 in an editorial in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. (Levels of mercury and other contaminants in fish have since declined somewhat but are not negligible.) Advertisement However, in both observational studies and controlled clinical trials, eating fish was shown to foster optimal development of a baby’s brain and nervous system, prompting advice that pregnant women and nursing mothers eat more fish rich in omega-3s while avoiding species that may contain mercury or other contaminants like PCBs sometimes found in freshwater fish. Another concern is the environmental cost that could result if people ate more fish, given that “many ocean fisheries are fully exploited or are in decline,” Drs. Nesheim and Nestle wrote. “In the face of limited supplies,” they added, the price of seafood would likely be “out of the reach of many consumers.” The declining supplies and rising costs of wild-caught fish have spawned a worldwide explosion of fish farming, which also has its downsides. For example, marine organisms used to feed farmed fish can diminish this vital food supply for wild stock, and fish that escape from farms may change the gene pool of wild fish. However, if the cost of wild fish is a concern, farmed salmon typically has as much or more omega-3s as wild-caught salmon, which can be three times as expensive. Currently, fewer than one person in five in this country eats fish at least twice a week, as recommended in the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and by the American Heart Association, among others. Fish, after all, are high in protein, low in saturated fat and contain beneficial nutrients like vitamin D and selenium. Other suspected health benefits of omega-3s and fish are less well established and need further study. They include suggestions of a reduced risk of breast cancer, colorectal cancer and possibly advanced prostate cancer, all related to eating fish rather than taking supplements. Some observational studies have associated omega-3s to a lower risk of cognitive decline, Alzheimer’s disease and dementia, as well as age-related macular degeneration. Also not firmly established is the protective value of plant sources of omega-3s: alpha-linolenic acid found in flax seeds, walnuts and some vegetable oils, which could be an option for vegetarians and people allergic to fish. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Snake-Oil Salesmen? How About Fish Oil?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by The New Health Care One conclusion from a much-discussed study: The best diet is the one you can stick to.  By Aaron E. Carroll The endless array of diets that claim to help you shed pounds tend to fall into two camps: low fat or low carbohydrate. Some companies even claim that genetics can tell us which diet is better for which people.  A rigorous recent study sought to settle the debate, and it had results to disappoint both camps. On the hopeful side, as The New York Times noted, people managed to lose weight no matter which of the two diets they followed.  The study is worth a closer look to see what it did and did not prove.  Researchers at Stanford University took more than 600 people (which is huge for a nutrition study) aged 18 to 50 who had a body mass index of 28 to 40 (25-30 is overweight, and 30 and over is obese). The study subjects had to be otherwise healthy. They couldn’t even be on statins, or drugs for Type 2 diabetes or hypertension, which might affect weight or energy expenditure. They were all randomly assigned to a healthful low-fat or a healthful low-carbohydrate diet, and they were clearly not blinded to which group they were in. All participants attended 22 instructional sessions over one year in groups of about 17 people. The sessions were held weekly at first and were then spaced out so that they were monthly in the last six months. Everyone was encouraged to reduce intake of the avoided nutrient to 20 grams per day over the first eight weeks, then participants slowly added fats or carbohydrates back to their diets until they reached the lowest level of intake they believed could be sustained for the long haul. Everyone was followed for a year (which is an eternity for a nutrition study). Everyone was encouraged to maximize vegetable intake; to minimize added sugar, refined flour and trans fat intake; and to focus on whole foods that were minimally processed. The subjects were also encouraged to cook at home as much as possible. All the participants took a glucose tolerance test as a measurement of insulin sensitivity. Some believe that insulin resistance or sensitivity may affect not only how people respond to diets, but also how well they adhere to them. The participants were also genotyped, because some believe that certain genes will make people more sensitive to carbohydrates or fat with respect to weight gain. About 40 percent of participants had a low-fat genotype, and 30 percent had a low-carbohydrate genotype. Data were gathered at the beginning of the study, at six months and at one year. At three unannounced times, researchers checked on patients to see how closely they were sticking to the instructions.  This was a phenomenally well-designed trial. People did change their diets according to their group assignment. Those in the low-fat group consumed, on average, 29 percent of their calories from fats, versus 45 percent in the low-carbohydrate group. Those in the low-carbohydrate group consumed 30 percent of their calories from carbohydrates, versus 48 percent in the low-fat group. They did not, however, lose meaningfully different amounts of weight. At 12 months, the low-carbohydrate group had lost, on average, just over 13 pounds, compared with more than 11.5 pounds in the low-fat group. The difference was not statistically significant. Insulin sensitivity didn’t make a difference. People who secreted more or less insulin lost no more or less weight in general on either a low-fat or low-carbohydrate diet. Genetics didn’t make a difference either. People who had genes that might indicate that they would do better on one diet or the other didn’t. In fact, when you look at how every single participant in this study fared on the diet to which he or she was assigned, it’s remarkable how both diets yielded an almost identical, curving range of responses — from lots of weight lost to a little gained. It wasn’t just the averages.  Some have taken this study to prove that avoiding processed foods, eating more whole foods, and cooking at home leads to weight loss. While I’d like that to be true — I have advocated this healthful approach in my Upshot article on food recommendations and in a recent book — that’s not what this study showed. Although that advice was given to all participants, there was no control group in which that advice was omitted, and so no conclusions can be made as to the efficacy of these instructions.  Others have taken this study as evidence debunking the idea that counting calories is the key to weight loss. While that wasn’t the main thrust of this study, nor the instructions given, participants did reduce their intake by an average of 500-600 calories a day (even if they didn’t count them). This study didn’t prove the unimportance of calories. The researchers also asked everyone, not just those in the low-carb group, to avoid “added sugars.” Therefore, we can’t really say anything new about added sugars and weight loss. What this study does show is that people who have staked a claim on one diet’s superiority over another don’t have as strong a case as they think. It’s hard to overstate how similarly these two diets performed, even at an individual level. It shows us that the many people, and the many studies, suggesting that we can tell which diets are best for you based on genetics or based on insulin levels might not be right either. Almost all of the studies that backed up such ideas were smaller, of shorter duration or less robust in design than this one. Granted, it’s still possible that there might be some gene discovered in the future that makes a difference, but those who think they’ve found it already might want to check their enthusiasm. This study was focused mostly on people who were obese, so people looking to lose just a few pounds might benefit more from one diet or the other; we don’t know. It’s also worth noting that the people in this study received significant support on both diets, so the results seen here might not apply to those attempting to lose weight on their own. You should be wary of those who tell you that they know what diet is best for you, or that there’s a test out there to tell you the same. Successful diets over the long haul are most likely ones that involve slow and steady changes. The simplest approach — and many have espoused it, including Jane Brody recently here at The Times — is to cut out processed foods, think about the calories you’re drinking, and try not to eat more than you intend to.  The bottom line is that the best diet for you is still the one you will stick to. No one knows better than you what that diet might be. You’ll most likely have to figure it out for yourself.   Aaron E. Carroll is a professor of pediatrics at Indiana University School of Medicine who blogs on health research and policy at The Incidental Economist and makes videos at Healthcare Triage. He is the author of  The Bad Food Bible: How and Why to Eat Sinfully. @aaronecarroll Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:10 P.M. E.D.T.
 LISBON, Portugal —  Police in Spain have captured a cybercrime gang made up of Ukrainians and Russians that allegedly stole more than 1 billion euros ($1.24 billion) from financial institutions worldwide in a five-year spree, authorities said Monday. The gang's alleged mastermind, identified as a Ukrainian and named only as "Denis K.," was arrested in the coastal city of Alicante, 350 kilometers (220 miles) southeast of Madrid, according to statements issued by Spanish police and European Union law enforcement agency Europol. Three suspected accomplices, said to be Russian and Ukrainian, were also arrested, Spanish authorities said. In Ukraine, police said that an unidentified 30-year-old man linked to the gang was cooperating with authorities. The hackers — whose activities have long been tracked by security researchers — used malware to target more than 100 financial institutions worldwide, sometimes stealing up to 10 million euros in each heist. Almost all of Russia's banks were targeted, and about 50 of them lost money in the electronic robberies, authorities said. Advertisement The gang used well-worn techniques such as booby trapped emails to break into banks and compromise the networks controlling ATMs, effectively turning the machines into free cash dispensers. Advertisement Ross Rustici, a senior director at Boston-based digital security firm Cybereason, said the gang stood out from others because of the amount of care and planning it put into operations.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "They're unusual in how slow and methodical they are and how organized they are," Rustici said. Other groups use similar techniques in isolation, "but nobody before them had strung all those things together on such a scale," he said. Authorities said that the gang converted its illicit gains into bitcoins and used the cryptocurrency to purchase big ticket items, including houses and vehicles, in Spain. Rustici said it seemed likely the gang members botched their effort to launder their ill-gotten gains. "That's usually what happens with these who are very good on the network side, they make mistakes on the money side," he said. "You can't buy a nice villa on the Mediterranean with cryptocurrency. Or at least not yet." ___ Satter reported from London. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 9:50 P.M. E.D.T.
 SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Terry Rozier had no idea he was so close to claiming a spot in the Boston Celtics' record books for 3-pointers when he tossed up a hurried shot beyond the arc with the shot clock winding down in the fourth quarter and watched it bounce off the rim. "If I knew that I would have shot five more for sure," Rozier said. Rozier didn't attempt another 3 after his miss but it hardly mattered on a day when Boston moved one step closer to Toronto in the race for the top spot in the Eastern Conference. Rozier scored a career-high 33 points in his sixth start in place of injured All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving, Jaylen Brown made consecutive buckets to break open a close game in the fourth quarter, and the Celtics held on to beat the Sacramento Kings 104-93 on Sunday. Rozier shot 12 of 16, including 8 of 12 on 3s, in his most impressive game of the season. Rozier, who had been averaging 16.2 points in Irving's absence, also had five rebounds and three assists. Advertisement "A lot of credit goes to my teammates and my coaches because they steady believe in me every game and the make it happen for me," said Rozier, whose previous career-best was 31 points against Atlanta on Feb. 2. "My job is easy. All I have to do is try to make the shot." Advertisement The eight 3s were one shy of the Celtics' single-game record of nine shared by Isaiah Thomas and Antoine Walker. Three of Rozier's 3s came in the third quarter as part of an 18-2 run, including a wide-open shot after Rozier did a 360-degree spin to get away from a defender. "The two 3s Terry made in the corners were ridiculous," Boston coach Brad Stevens said. "Those are big-time shots. It sort of helped us separate a little." Brown had 19 points in his return after missing two weeks with a concussion. Al Horford scored 14 points while Jayson Tatum added 12 points and seven rebounds to help Boston win in Sacramento for the first time since Feb. 1, 2011. Rozier's big game came 24 hours after Irving underwent surgery to remove a tension wire in his left knee. Irving is expected to miss three to six weeks. Boston won for the fourth time in five games. Toronto, which began the day with a 4 1/2-game lead over the Celtics, lost to the Clippers 117-106 on Sunday. "We got pretty good looks all night," Stevens said. "Everyone played well but we were really playing with purpose."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Buddy Hield scored 24 points for Sacramento, and Willie Cauley-Stein and Skal Labissiere had 14 points apiece. The Kings had won five straight home games against the Celtics and entered the fourth quarter down 80-78 before being held to 13 points in the final frame. "Point guards have been hurting us lately," Sacramento coach Dave Joerger said. "They kind of got where the want to go, they got loose balls, they got the 50-50 balls. Very physical and long to guard and it cost us." Advertisement Three days after protesters formed a human chain blocking entrances to Golden1 Center and prevented all but about 1,500 fans from entering, things were back to normal in and outside the arena. Metal barricades were extended further out than usual to form a bigger perimeter but that was the only indication that anything had happened. Players from both teams wore black T-shirts during warm-ups and throughout the game. "Accountability. We are one," was printed in white letters on the front, with #StephonClark printed on the back. Clark was the 22-year-old unarmed African-American man who was fatally shot by police in Sacramento on March 18, setting off a series of protests around the state capital. "All we can do is try to make a voice," Rozier said. "It just shows how much power we have and how much we care. That's part of the NBA. That's good for everybody else to see that's outside of the NBA." STARTING OFF WELL Boston's starters shot a combined 66 percent from the floor (33 of 50) while Irving and Marcus Morris sat out. Morris is nursing a sprained right ankle he suffered Friday in Portland. TIP-INS Celtics: Brown went to the bench with three fouls in the opening seven minutes of the first quarter. Kings: Zach Randolph did not play for the second consecutive game. Garrett Temple was also held out and missed his second straight since spraining his left ankle in practice Thursday. UP NEXT Celtics: At Phoenix on Monday night. Kings: Host Dallas on Tuesday night. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:25 P.M. E.D.T.
 JOHANNESBURG —  South Africa's new president Cyril Ramaphosa will need to call on all his dealmaking skills to overhaul ailing state-owned firms and tackle land reform if he wants to capitalize on Moody's decision not to downgrade the country's debt to junk. Moody's said its decision to keep South Africa's rating at investment grade reflected its view the country's institutions would regain strength under more transparent and predictable policies - though the new government had to stay on track. Since replacing Jacob Zuma in February, Ramaphosa has reappointed the finance minister his predecessor fired in 2015, sacked some ministers allied to Zuma, put another respected former finance minister in charge of struggling state-owned firms and suspended the head of the revenue service. "It's a big deal," political analyst Ralph Mathekga said about Moody's decision. "What he has been able to achieve in two months is to reverse some of Zuma's influence in key sectors. The message he sent is: 'I can do more'." Advertisement After his whirlwind start, Ramaphosa's challenges now include keeping the unions on side as the government overhauls cash-strapped national carrier South African Airways (SAA) and heavily indebted state power utility Eskom. Advertisement Perhaps his stiffest test will be to push through land expropriation, as promised, to address racial disparities in ownership - while keeping the left wing of the ruling African National Congress (ANC) on board and not scaring off investors. Parliament passed a motion last month seeking to change the constitution to allow land expropriation without compensation. Ramaphosa has promised to speed up the transfer of land to black people, but has stressed the need to preserve food security. "A big deliverable is to initiate the land debate under his leadership to control the narrative and discourse. Should he fail to do this, he runs the risk of undoing the good work already done," said Daniel Silke, director of Political Futures Consultancy. Ramaphosa's negotiating skills have been respected for decades, ever since Nelson Mandela turned to the former trade union boss to lead the successful negotiations to end white minority rule. More recently, Ramaphosa had to strike a fine balance between applying pressure on Zuma to go, while still affording him a dignified exit. Now, same analysts say land reform is Ramaphosa's litmus test. "Are we over-estimating Ramaphosa's ability to deal with this land issue? It is undoubtedly one of his biggest challenges. Investors are worried about this and watching him very closely," said independent political analyst Nic Borain. 'GOOD NEGOTIATOR' When it comes to South Africa's struggling state-run companies, Ramaphosa will need to perform a similar balancing act and he has already named respected former finance minister Pravin Gordhan as minister of public enterprises.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Eskom and SAA are both weighed down by massive wage bills but the country's powerful unions are likely to dig in their heels at any attempt to cut jobs, especially with elections looming in 2019. Advertisement Influential labor leaders, sections of the ANC and the opposition Economic Freedom Fighters are also likely to balk at any moves to partially privatize the companies, which is one strategy backed by the Treasury. South African Airways runs one of Africa's biggest fleets but years of operational losses have left it on the brink of bankruptcy. It needed a bailout in July to repay debt and 20 billion rand ($2 billion) in state guarantees to keep it afloat. Eskom received a 5-billion rand loan in February from the state's Public Investment Corporation (PIC), which holds a large amount of government bonds and ranks as Africa's biggest investment fund, or it would have defaulted on its debts. "There is going to be some tension when these job cuts are announced. It is a delicate balance because it could impact the support base of the party ahead of next year's elections," said Borain. Still, Ramaphosa has already taken the politically risky step of raising value-added tax (VAT) for the first time since apartheid to try to reduce the budget deficit and analysts say he is unlikely to back down on reforms. "He did not give in to populism on the VAT; this was a good example of him having to do something unpopular but necessary," Borain said. "He is known to be a good negotiator." Finance minister Nhlanhla Nene expressed hope on Monday that S&P Global Ratings and Fitch might also look favorably on South Africa during upcoming reviews, saying investors he had met at a roadshow in London before Moody's decision were upbeat. S&P downgraded South African local currency debt to "junk" in November citing a deterioration in the economic outlook and public finances. Fitch cut its rating in April to sub-investment grade after Zuma fired Gordhan as finance minister. S&P will publish its review on May 25. Fitch has not given a date. "I want to call this a honeymoon phase - and it is for that reason that we cannot be complacent about it," Nene told Talk Radio 702. Advertisement ($1 = 11.6627 rand) (Editing by David Clarke) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:26 A.M. E.D.T.
 AUCKLAND —  Late strikes in the first two sessions of the final day gave New Zealand's bowlers confidence they could finish the job, captain Kane Williamson said after they completed an innings and 49 run victory over England in the first test on Monday. England were dismissed for 320 early in the final session of the day-night test match, the first in New Zealand, to give the hosts a 1-0 lead in the two-match series. The victory was set up with a brilliant swing bowling performance on the opening day when they dismissed England for a record low score of 58 in 20.4 overs. Williamson's attack, however, had to keep chipping away in England's second innings, which lasted 105.3 overs longer than their first. Advertisement "We knew that we wanted to play the long game. We didn't want to get too far ahead of ourselves," Williamson said of entering the fifth day needing seven wickets as the visitors resumed on 132-3. Advertisement "We knew that we would need to work hard against a quality England side ... in terms of taking wickets in the second innings. And they showed that it was very hard to do. "We had a slightly older ball coming into today and we knew that it wasn't going to do a lot for us. So it was important that we hit our areas and build that pressure."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That pressure paid off three times in England's second innings with New Zealand taking late wickets after the visitors had built profitable partnerships to frustrate their attack and defy their push for victory. Trent Boult had Joe Root caught in the final over of the fourth day after he had scored 51, while Moeen Ali was trapped in front in the final over of the first session on Monday. Ben Stokes was then caught by Tim Southee off Neil Wagner in the final over of the middle session after he had combined with Chris Woakes in a patient, low-risk partnership of 83 in almost 31 overs that had threatened to take the game away. "I think the big part of it was taking wickets before the end of the sessions," Williamson said. "The guys' spirits were high and it was great to come out in the last session and do the job." (Reporting by Greg Stutchbury in Wellington; Editing by Nick Mulvenney) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:59 A.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  JD Sports Fashion is entering the lucrative U.S. market after agreeing to buy Finish Line Inc for $558 million (£394 million) in cash, the sportswear retailer said on Monday. Growing demand for branded sports shoes and clothes has enabled JD Sports to overtake Sports Direct as Britain's leading sportswear retailer by market value. Its move into the largest sportswear market is its boldest yet, increasing JD Sports' importance to international brands, particularly Nike and Adidas. NASDAQ-listed Finish Line is one of the largest retailers of premium multi-branded athletic footwear, apparel and accessories in the U.S., trading from 556 branded retail stores across 44 states and Puerto Rico and online. Advertisement JD Sports has expanded overseas in recent years, gaining a presence in France, Spain and South Korea. Advertisement "This is a landmark day for JD and will be transformational for the business. It immediately offers a major presence in the U.S., a clear next step to further increase our global scale," its Executive Chairman Peter Cowgill said. Shares in JD Sports rose up to 3.9 percent in early trading. "The deal looks a sensibly-priced entry point into a market that JD must embrace to be considered a genuinely global player," said Peel Hunt analyst Jonathan Pritchard, who has a "buy" rating on the stock. Finish Line is also the exclusive retailer of athletic shoes, both in-store and online, for Macy's, operating 375 branded and 188 unbranded concessions within Macy's stores.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Its revenue in the year to March 3 2018 was $1.84 billion. Pritchard said the deal will enhance JD's relationships with the big manufacturers, especially Nike, which represents 71 percent of Finish Line’s sales. JD Sports has agreed to pay $13.50 per share for Finish Line, compared to its $10.55 close on Friday, which gave it a market capitalisation of $425 million versus JD Sports' 3.5 billion pound value. The British firm is funding the deal through a new revolving credit facility and a new asset backed lending facility secured against Finish Line's inventory and receivables. JD Sports forecast the acquisition would make a small incremental positive contribution to its results and earnings per share in the year to Feb. 2 2019. The deal, which requires the approval of both companies' shareholders, is expected to complete no earlier than June. ($1 = 0.7064 pounds) (Editing by Sarah Young and Alexander Smith) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 10:41 P.M. E.D.T.
 KANSAS CITY, Mo. —  Mississippi State's Vic Schaefer was in no hurry to talk about returning to the Final Four, instead spending the first few minutes on the dais quietly circling the highlights on the box score. There were plenty of them. Teaira McCowan had 23 points and 21 rebounds, Victoria Vivans added 24 points, and top-seeded Mississippi State held on after blowing most of its big lead to beat third-seeded UCLA 89-73 on Sunday night and earn a repeat trip to the semifinals of the NCAA Tournament. The Bulldogs will meet another No. 1 seed in Louisville on Friday night in Columbus, Ohio. "They've lived all year with a bulls-eye on their backs. That's hard to do, y'all," said Schaefer, who arrived at the postgame news conference with the net draped around his neck. "These kids," their coach added, "are special." Morgan William added 17 points, and Roshunda Johnson had 12 for the Bulldogs (36-1), who extended their school record for wins in a season. Now, the task is to go one step further than Mississippi State did last year, when it fell to South Carolina in the national title game. Advertisement "I just had a real confidence today," Schaefer said. "The TV crew made a comment, 'Coach, this is the most chill I've seen you.' I just had a real confidence." Advertisement Jordin Canada led the relentless Bruins (27-8) with 23 points, eight rebounds and five assists, despite playing much of the game with a sprained elbow. Japreece Dean ad 16 points, and Monique Billings and Kennedy Burke had 12 apiece, most of it as the Bruins were rallying from a 50-32 hole. They closed within 74-68 on Dean's 3-pointer with 2:53 left, but they couldn't get a stop on the defensive end. Instead, the Bruins and Bulldogs traded basket-for-basket down the stretch. Mississippi State finally pulled away from the foul line in the final minute. "I wanted to have a chance to coach this group for another day, but the reality is they've had a historic season," UCLA coach Cori Close said. "I love them. I'm proud of them, and there is nothing that could happen today that would change that." Early on, the Bulldogs followed the same formula they used in routing North Carolina State, dumping it into the much larger McCowan for easy baskets inside. The 6-foot-7 center, who had 24 points in that regional semifinal, scored six during an 11-0 run that gave her team the lead.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Vivians gave the Bulldogs control. The senior forward from Carthage, Mississippi, converted a three-point play to begin the second period, then added eight more later in the quarter. She finished with 16 points in the first half, and her spinning, driving layup helped the Bulldogs take a 42-26 lead into the locker room. The only offense UCLA could muster came from Canada, and most of that was at the foul line. "Mississippi State's game plan was to pressure us and try to get the ball out of my hands," Canada said, "so I thought in the beginning of the game we had a lull where we couldn't run anything." The Bulldogs' lead eventually reached 18 points midway through the third quarter before the Bruins, fueled by defense, began to nip away at it. UCLA finally got it under 10 at 53-44 before Blair Schaefer hit a couple of deep 3-pointers to give Mississippi State another boost. UCLA made one final run, trimming a 67-52 deficit to 67-61 with 6:52 to go. But after the teams traded baskets, Schaefer knocked down her third 3 from the top of the key to silence the Bruins' bench. Advertisement Mississippi State kept finding answers until putting the game away. "This is the hardest time to put into words what's in my heart," Close said. "It's really difficult to get through our disappointment because we really believed we expected to win, but at the same time there is no way to put into words the depth of pride I have in these women." BIG PICTURE UCLA needed someone to step up with Canada dealing with blanket defense, and they finally did when Dean and Billings fueled the Bruins' late run. But the Bulldogs had enjoyed a comfortable lead most of the game, and they were perhaps a bit fresher down the stretch. Mississippi State leaned heavily on McCowan in the regional semifinals, but the Bulldogs showed off their balance against UCLA. Vivians, William and Johnson provided offensive punch, and Schaefer hit her only three 3-point attempts at important moments. UP NEXT Mississippi State is headed to Columbus, Ohio, where it will try to finish the deal. But first up is Louisville, which routed Oregon State 76-43 to reach the Final Four. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:20 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  A bitter optimism is felt at the end of the marathon, two-part AIDS play "Angels in America" and one of its stars, Andrew Garfield, shares some of that hope, especially with so many young people in the #NeverAgain movement demanding gun law changes and begging not to be cut down by bullets. Garfield said the Pulitzer Prize- and Tony Award-winning work resonates as much today as it did when it first premiered more than 25 years ago, citing Saturday's March for Our Lives in Washington, D.C., and around the country. "These incredibly inspiring, beautiful young people organized the March for Our Lives," he said Sunday at an opening night party. "You have teenagers who are wiser than the elders of our population, teenagers who are wiser and smarter and who are being forced to fight for simply being alive." He added:  "Thank God they are doing what they are doing, and we need to stand with them and follow them and help them lead." Advertisement The former Spider-Man actor, who has been on Broadway before in "Death of a Salesman," has transferred Tony Kushner's seven-hour masterpiece from London to Broadway. "Angels in America" dramatizes the early days of the AIDS crisis in 1980s and the effects of Reaganism. Advertisement In his final monologue, Garfield's character says: "The dead will be commemorated. And we'll struggle on with the living. And we are not going away. We won't die secret deaths anymore. The world only spins forward." Kushner has said that all his plays, and this one in particular, seem to thrive under Republican administrations. But he said Sunday the current Donald Trump administration is like none that he has ever seen.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "There have been many bad Republican administrations. I would argue that, with the possible exception of some parts of the Eisenhower administration, it's all been pretty terrible. This is indescribably worse than anything we've had before, so maybe this is the moment when the play will really hit big," Kushner said. The play also stars Nathan Lane, Lee Pace, Denise Gough, and Nathan Stewart-Jarrett. It is directed by Tony- and Olivier-winner Marianne Elliott. Garfield said Kushner's dogged optimism for a broken-down world and craving for life itself makes his words so appealing in 2018. "It does feel like we are dreaming of a better future. I think that is what Tony is trying to do with the play. He's giving us a very accurate depiction of the hell we are in, and then he is giving us a way out, which is through community, empathy, remembering about the sacredness of life — all life — and the mystery of longing for more life," Garfield said. ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement 
Shopping Guide  By                     
 TIM McKEOUGH
 
MARCH 26, 2018
 Flush-mount ceiling fixtures don’t get nearly as much attention as they deserve. Of course, they don’t have the towering height and dazzling finish of chandeliers, or the sculptural appeal of decorative sconces. But when you walk into a room and need immediate illumination, there is no better multipurpose performer. “You have the opportunity to flood the room” with light, said the New York interior designer James Huniford. “If you don’t have something there, it can feel like a black hole. And if you have a bunch of recessed lights, it starts to look like Swiss cheese.” Sometimes Mr. Huniford uses simple ceiling lights that could almost go unnoticed, like basic porcelain sockets paired with mirrored bulbs, which he put in his house in Bridgehampton, N.Y. But other times, he aims for high drama with pieces like a custom snaking plaster fixture that he recently installed in a home on the Upper West Side. “It’s like a sculpture,” he said, “hugging the ceiling.” • Should a ceiling fixture be installed in the middle of a room? Usually, but not always: “Sometimes we use four, each in a corner about two feet off the wall,” Mr. Huniford said. Advertisement • Is it better to have a switch or a dimmer? “I like to have dimmers on ceiling lights,” he said, so the light level can be reduced to a warm glow at night. • How large should a ceiling fixture be? “The key to a ceiling light is the scale of the room,” Mr. Huniford said. A small fixture in a big room can look dinky, while a large fixture could easily overwhelm a small room. Powder-coated steel-and-cast-glass light for ceiling or wall by Meyer Davis | $420 at Rich Brilliant Willing: 212-388-1621 or richbrilliantwilling.com Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ____ Metal, glass and wood ceiling fixture | From $700 at Allied Maker: 516-200-9145 or alliedmaker.com ____ Ceiling fixture with bronze finish and alabaster shade by Kelly Wearstler | $1,260 at Circa Lighting: 212-725-2500 or circalighting.com ____ Unglazed ceramic fixture with matte finish | $149 at Cedar & Moss: 503-635-0820 or cedarandmoss.com Advertisement ____ Square satin brass fixture | $900 at Atelier de Troupe: 323-870-5303 or atelierdetroupe.com For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 6:23 A.M. E.D.T.
 BANGKOK —  A court in the Thai capital on Monday ordered a British labor rights activist to pay 10 million baht ($321,000) in damages to a company that filed a civil defamation suit after he helped expose alleged human rights violations at its factory. The Monday ruling against Andy Hall was the latest development involving four defamation suits filed by pineapple canning company Natural Fruit, which employed migrant Myanmar workers who claimed the company had abused them and broke labor regulations. Hall's legal troubles stem from a 2013 report he researched for the Finnish consumer organization Finnwatch that alleged labor abuses at Natural Fruit's facilities. They also concern an interview that he gave to Al-Jazeera on the subject, which was the focus of Monday's ruling. Natural Fruit claimed that the report Hall helped research and his interview comments both hurt their business. Hall has prevailed in one of the two criminal defamation suits against him, while the other is pending, as is another civil suit.  He has also filed a countersuit against Natural Fruit. Advertisement Hall left Thailand in 2016, citing intolerable legal harassment after another company, poultry producer Thammakaset Farm, sued him in another case, but still works on labor rights issues concerning migrants in Thailand.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "This verdict is a major setback for rights of human rights defenders, migrant workers, labour/migration activists and researchers everywhere and casts a dark shadow over recent positive progress the Thai government and Thai industry has made to improve migrant worker conditions," Hall commented Monday on his Twitter account. Advertisement The reputation of Thai companies has been tainted in recent years by allegations of labor abuse, especially in the fishing and seafood industries. Several companies in that sector have worked with Hall to try to improve conditions, fearing sanctions from countries that take Thai exports. "The big issue in Andy Hall's case is this is an active attempt to try and discourage independent research into company supply chains in Thailand, and this should be a serious concern to all foreign investors who are sourcing production in Thailand," said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director of Human Rights Watch. "When problems in their supply chain are brought to light, companies like Natural Fruit or Thammakaset Farm can so easily sue and ruin the life of an activist to try to keep them silent. It has a chilling effect on this type of research. It has a chilling effect on the freedom of expression in Thailand," Robertson said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 6:17 A.M. E.D.T.
 RIO DE JANEIRO/MEXICO CITY —  Oil and gas companies are gathering in Mexico and Brazil this week for what may be two of their last chances to compete for some of the world's biggest reserves ahead of elections that could dial back energy reforms in both countries. An auction of rights to explore and produce oil from shallow waters off Mexico and an onshore and offshore auction round in Brazil are taking place months before presidential elections in Latin America's top two economies. Leftist contenders have pledged to reverse or slow the flow of private money into the oil industry in both countries. The uncertainty of the elections could spur some companies to win bids to lock in access to new exploration areas. "There is indeed a feeling that these could be the last (auctions) for a while," an executive for one company registered to bid in both countries said on condition of anonymity. Advertisement Other firms could hold off competing until they see if elections bring any changes to contracts or terms. Advertisement Mexico's leftist firebrand candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who is leading in opinion polls, has said he will review over 90 contracts signed since Mexico passed legislation in 2013 ending the 75-year monopoly of state energy firm Pemex. This month Lopez Obrador plans to ask President Enrique Pena Nieto to cancel two auctions planned for the second half of the year if he wins the July election. Support for Lopez Obrador is pegged at around 29.5 percent compared with 21.2 percent for his nearest rival, according to polls. In Brazil, the most likely leftist contender in the presidential race, Ciro Ferreira Gomes, has warned off potential oil company bidders, saying he would expropriate energy assets bought by private investors if he wins the October election. Gomes, a former governor, is trailing rightist candidate Jair Bolsonaro in polls where former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who has vowed to run but is likely to be barred due to a corruption investigation, is not offered as a candidate. "The companies might now want greater rates of return or they could get to a point where they will not want that level of risk," said Alfredo Alvarez, head of the North Latin America energy group for consultancy EY in Mexico.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Most oil executives and analysts told Reuters they are not expecting the reforms to be fully reversed in either country. But many see a slower bidding calendar and changes in contract terms as real possibilities. "The speed of the auctions could be slower and even stop, but the reform is protected in the constitution, which requires two-thirds of the Senate and the lower house to change," Pemex Chief Executive Officer Carlos Trevino said earlier this month in Houston. Advertisement (Graphic including blocks on offer in both auctions: https://tmsnrt.rs/2pzobJo) OFFERING BIG CUT OF OIL Brazil's top-quality geology and history of honouring contracts have outweighed worries about political instability. Bids in Thursday's round and in a subsequent auction in June for presalt blocks could be so big they may damage the profitability of any awards, consultancy Wood Mackenzie said. In September, Exxon Mobil paid a record $678 million for a Brazilian block with partner Petrobras in a concession-based auction. In another sign of strong demand, firms competing in October to buy stakes in the country's coveted presalt oilfields promised to give the government as much as 80 percent of the oil produced after costs. For Thursday's auction in Brazil, 21 companies including Chevron, BP, Exxon, Royal Dutch Shell, Statoil, and Total have registered to bid in a round where 70 blocks are being offered. Majors are likely to vie for a handful of blocks in the prolific offshore Campos and Santos basins, with minimum signing bonuses of up to $575.5 million. Some are rumoured to have desirable presalt geology. In Mexico, 14 firms and 22 consortia composed of majors and medium-size companies qualified to bid in this week's auction, which will offer 35 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico's shallow waters. The government expects at least seven to be awarded, the energy minister said. Pemex is likely the round's dominant player because it owns the infrastructure and has accumulated a vast knowledge of the geology. (Reporting by Marianna Parraga, Ana Isabel Martinez and David Alire in Mexico City, and Alexandra Alper in Rio de Janeiro; Editing by Simon Webb, Gary McWilliams and Jeffrey Benkoe) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By Charles M. Blow As Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, tweeted Friday: “@realDonaldTrump is now set for war on 3 fronts: political vs Bob Mueller, economic vs China/others on trade, and actual vs. Iran and/or North Korea. This is the most perilous moment in modern American history — and it has been largely brought about by ourselves, not by events.” I agree fully with this assessment. Some have viewed President Trump’s recent moves as a sign of rising self-assuredness in the man. I see quite the opposite. I see a man growing increasingly irascible as his sense of desperation surges. The world is closing in on Trump and he is in an existential fight for his own survival. This is precisely what makes him so dangerous: As the personal threat to him grows, his threat to the country grows. The power of the American presidency is an awesome power, and Trump will harness and deploy it all as guard and guarantee against his own demise. Add to his sense of panic his compounding emotional and psychological liabilities: He has an inflated view of his own skills, talents and expertise. He knows only a fraction of what he has convinced himself that he knows. He prefers casual conversation to literary examination, opting to listen rather than to read, which is both a sign of a severely compromised and restrained intellect and an astounding arrogance about one’s information absorption. While pundits mull whether the cloud of chaos Trump keeps swirling around him is simple incompetence or strategic plotting, The New York Times reported Friday: “Aides said there was no grand strategy to the president’s actions, and that he got up each morning this week not knowing what he would do. Much as he did as a New York businessman at Trump Tower, Mr. Trump watched television, reacted to what he saw on television and then reacted to the reaction.” This is all gut and instinct. This is all reactionary emoting by a man of poor character, one addicted to affirmation. He desperately needs to be the king-of-every-hill he sees in the mirror: He was the ladies’ man, businessman, smartest man, toughest man. There was nothing beyond him, and he didn’t have to follow the rules, he only had to follow his instincts. But Washington politics is a long way from New York City real estate. Wrangling Senate votes is a long way from prowling for playmates. This is the big leagues and this little man is feeling the stress and strain of it. Even if he can’t be good, he at least wants to look good, to fake it to try to make it. This may be one of the reasons he is inviting so many television personalities into his cabinet. This is all just window dressing. Trump is truly in the cross hairs, and he knows it. Just as he is going to war on three fronts, he is being attacked on three fronts. The Robert Mueller investigation is bearing down on him as an inevitable in-person interview with Trump — and all of its potential pitfalls — draws nearer. I have resisted predictions about what could come of the investigation because it would be little more than conjecture. Only Mueller knows what Mueller knows. But, it appears to me that the president is surely acting like a guilty man, or at least someone trying to shield another who is guilty. Then there is the porn star, the playmate and the reality star: Three women currently in litigation over sexual contact with Trump — two admittedly consensual and one allegedly not. The most tantalizing and threatening of the three is the case with porn star Stephanie Clifford, whose stage name is Stormy Daniels. Daniels and her attorney, as well as language in the nondisclosure agreement that she signed, suggests that she has some compromising written and photographic evidence about her encounters with Trump. Furthermore, in Daniels, Trump seems to have met his match as an internet troll. When someone on Twitter asked Clifford, “What snack foods do you recommend for watching you on “60 Minutes” tomorrow night? Nachos and wings feel so January, you know?” Clifford responded: “Tacos and mini corndogs just seems so right … and yet, so wrong. I believe the more traditional choice is popcorn, however.” Yes, the subtext of that tweet is exactly what you think it is. Note to self: Never pick a fight with a porn star. And now with the massive March For Our Lives, we see that going into the midterms not only are black voters and suburban white women energized against this president and his congressional protectors, so are young people who feel betrayed, particularly on the issue of gun control, by politicians beholden to the N.R.A. Trump talked big about standing up to the N.R.A., and then summarily caved to the N.R.A. If this surge of enthusiasm leads to Democrats flipping the House — and the long shot, the Senate — and something comes of the Mueller investigation or the women’s lawsuits, you can rest assured that impeachment proceedings will be in the offing. This is why Trump is going to war. I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter (@CharlesMBlow), or email me at chblow@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:41 P.M. E.D.T.
 PHONE AND PHISHING SCAMS Income tax filing season brings an increase in activity by would-be thieves using phone calls and email to try to get money out of taxpayers. That warning comes from the IRS. Phone scams often involve someone calling a taxpayer, telling them they owe taxes and could be arrested if they don't pay. The thieves try to frighten taxpayers into giving them their credit card numbers and perhaps other personal information. Sometimes the first call is a recorded message that demands the taxpayer return the call. The IRS does not initiate contact with taxpayers by phone. And if someone owes money to the government, they'll first get a bill through the mail. The IRS also does not demand payment until after a taxpayer has had time to question and/or appeal a bill. The agency also says it does not ask for credit or debit card numbers over the phone. The IRS also does not make its first contact with taxpayers via email. So an unexpected email purportedly from the IRS should immediately be viewed with suspicion — it's probably a scam. Advertisement Phishing scams also go after a taxpayer's money. One of thieves' most common tactics is to send an email that looks legitimate and contains a link or attachment that, when clicked on, downloads software that can steal information like passwords for bank accounts and credit card numbers. Or, the email can ask for Social Security numbers and other personal information — which the IRS would not do in an email.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And while some phishing scams are designed to look like they're from the IRS, there are other ways that thieves carry them out. Anyone can be infected if they visit a website that's been hacked. And there have been cases where tax preparers' computers have been hacked and their clients' personal information stolen, the IRS says. Advertisement Taxpayers should keep a close eye on activity in all their accounts — bank, credit and debit cards, online payment accounts etc. Any unexpected withdrawals or deposits should be reported immediately. You can learn more on the IRS website, www.irs.gov . Search for "scams." A FIRST BIG MILESTONE For many brand-new businesses, a first milestone is $500,000 in sales. SCORE, the organization that gives free counseling to small businesses, is sponsoring an online seminar to help new owners reach that goal. It will be held Thursday, April 5 at 1 p.m. Eastern time. You can learn more and register at https://bit.ly/2uk60MF . _____ Follow Joyce Rosenberg at www.twitter.com/JoyceMRosenberg . Her work can be found here: https://apnews.com/search/joyce%20rosenberg We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 6:44 A.M. E.D.T.
 BANGKOK —  Ride-hailing giant Uber is selling its business in Southeast Asia to regional rival Grab while gaining a robust stake in the fast-growing ridesharing, food delivery and financial services business. Grab said Monday that Uber will take a 27.5 percent stake and a seat on its board as part of the deal. Financial details were not disclosed. Since becoming Uber's CEO in September, Dara Khosrowshahi has been maneuvering to make the company profitable before a planned initial public offering expected next year. The company's full-year net loss widened to $4.5 billion in 2017 as it endured multiple scandals and the departure of its co-founder and former CEO Travis Kalanick. Advertisement The deal enables Uber to keep a foothold in the increasingly affluent market of 640 million people while cutting its losses. Advertisement "It will help us double down on our plans for growth as we invest heavily in our products and technology to create the best customer experience on the planet," Khosrowshahi said in a statement. Grab provides services in Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar and Cambodia. It says it offers access to five million drivers and agents and handles over a billion transactions a year. The deal was dismaying to many in Asia who have often compared the rival apps in search of the best deal.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Uber app will be discontinued in just two weeks, and in the meantime its drivers have to sign up to drive with Grab. Riders, likewise, will need to download the Grab app and set up accounts, although their Uber accounts will still work outside Southeast Asia. The companies said that Uber Eats, the food delivery business, will run in Southeast Asia through May and then shift to the GrabFood platform. Grab has been seeking to dominate the regional market for car and motorbike hailing and has expanded into other areas, recently announcing plans to partner with a Japanese credit card company to provide credit to millions of people without bank accounts. In Indonesia, the region's biggest economy and most populous country with more than 250 million people, it's in a fierce battle for customers with local app Go-Jek, which has backing from Google and Tencent. Grab's CEO and co-founder Anthony Tan said the acquisition of Uber's regional business marks the beginning of a new era in using mobile businesses to provide transport, food delivery, payments and other financial services across the region. Uber has withdrawn from several big overseas markets. It sold off its China business to a competitor and partner, Didi Chuxing, taking a stake in Didi. In Russia, it agreed to merge its ride-hailing business in the country with Yandex, a local search-engine leader that also runs a popular taxi-booking app. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:23 P.M. E.D.T.
 SAN FRANCISCO —  Todd Helton now regularly drives his two daughters to school or other activities back home in Tennessee, a huge life change for Colorado's former All-Star first baseman. He had no idea walking away from baseball would be such a daunting and overwhelming adjustment. The daily routine that had become part of his DNA — the bantering, the batting practice, the games — replaced by chauffeuring kids, helping around the house and some golf. "It was the hardest thing I've ever done in my life," Helton said. "I've been a baseball player since I could walk, always knew I was going to be a baseball player." As baseball begins anew, many former players realize just how tough it is. No more opening days. No adrenaline rush from batting with the bases loaded and two outs in front of 40,000 fans going crazy. No clubhouse camaraderie, sharing a goal of reaching the World Series. Advertisement The planes, the hotels, the autograph seekers and, sure, the money. But a structure totally built around being at the stadium, suddenly replaced by mundane tasks with nobody watching. Advertisement "You step away and the game goes on without you, no matter how great you were," former outfielder Randy Winn said. "And there are some really great players standing around here that aren't playing anymore: world champions, All-Stars, Barry (Bonds) walks in and some of the greatest of all time. And the game goes on. There's younger people that come in that get talked about. That's maybe not the hardest thing but it's kind of the 'What's next for me?' that is the hard part." Injuries forced ex-San Francisco pitcher Noah Lowry to retire early , and he now owns an outdoors store in Northern California and joined the Chamber of Commerce. Like Helton, he also felt lost without his sport. "I felt dead inside," Lowry said. One-time Giants teammate Jack Taschner became a police officer in Wisconsin. He blossomed into an internet sensation last fall when he showed up at a high school football game and fooled fans by leading a group cheer in the stands. Helton retired after the 2013 season following a 17-year career, all with the Rockies. He returned to Coors Field last Sept. 15 for a reunion of the 2007 NL champions who were swept by Boston in the World Series. While there, Helton visited a back room in the clubhouse and reminisced while looking at the bat rack where his lumber once rested. It can be a difficult change even when you know your time's up. Especially for those players who didn't earn the kind of salaries to support them for decades to come. "If you're lucky you're in your mid-30s, right? Let's say you make it to the big leagues when you're 25 and if you're lucky you play five years — you're 30 years old," said Winn, who retired in April 2011 after 13 major league seasons in the outfield with Tampa Bay, Seattle, San Francisco, the New York Yankees and St. Louis. "You have 50 years of being retired, so that's daunting. Even if you do play 20 years you still have a lot of years on the other side to figure out kind of 'What do I want to do?' Fred McGriff told me when I first retired — that's my guy, he took me under his wing when I was a rookie — he said, 'Randy, there's only so much golf you can play.'" Advertisement Retired reliever Scott Eyre, who pitched 13 big league seasons with five teams, announced "I need a job!" in a Facebook post on Aug. 31. Those still working in baseball realize how fortunate they are to have stayed part of the game they love. "I always planned to be involved in the game. I never dreamed I would be managing, that was new for me," said A.J. Hinch of the World Series champion Houston Astros. "But being able to be in the game, it's what we know, it's what we love. We're used to the rigors and the routine of the season. "It's hard to be away. You spend so much time on a baseball team or in a baseball season, it's impossible not to miss it." Winn said the regimented baseball schedule always has players somewhere at a specific time — from buses to flights to stretching and batting practice. And that's often all these men have known for years. "And even in the offseason, you don't have somewhere to be but you have a goal," said Winn, now a Giants special assistant and analyst. "You take however much time you take off then you have a goal — I want to be ready for spring, so that requires me being places: at the gym, cardio, throwing, hitting, kind of on a regimented schedule." To be part of a team for so long, for most way back to their Little League days, and then no longer having that daily interaction and togetherness can take a toll. A 13-year big league catcher, Cardinals manager Mike Matheny had to walk away because of about 30 concussions from years of taking foul tips and hard collisions at the plate. Advertisement "It happens to everybody in any walk of life, it just happens to our guys a lot younger," Matheny said. "I think some guys handle it extremely well. Most of them have a balance and once again they kind of do figure out what is going on in their life besides the game."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "There's other guys that are very content with the fact of putting the title on themselves they're going to be a lifer. They're going to be in this game no matter what. ... It all comes down to most of the guys just finding peace with where it is they're supposed to be," he said. "It's not easy. I've talked with some guys who have had unbelievable careers. They just can't get their mind around not being part of something or part of a team." _____ For Lowry, four surgeries on his troublesome pitching arm sent the lefty into retirement at age 26 after parts of just five seasons. It took time to deal with the sadness and anger of his situation, the shame, the depression. He called the transition to his next chapter "a disorienting and chaotic experience." He has worked with an organization called "The Revenant Process" to help him take new steps, redefine his life's meaning and deal with what came next. A father of three, he also gives his time to Bay Area youth in various capacities. In a video he shared, Lowry opens up about how losing baseball brought back anxieties from his childhood that kept him from developing close friendships. "In a moment, my identity crumbled, who I thought I was, the man my wife thought she had married, fell apart. The innocence of my childhood turned to shame as I grew older," he shared. "... Leaving the majors was the final crack in the dam that had been holding back years of pent-up anger, doubt and fear." ___ Taschner pitched six seasons in the majors and owns a 10-5 lifetime record. His 50 innings for the Giants in 2007 were a career high and he pitched 189 innings in all. He had to go back to work. The 39-year-old Taschner is a police officer in Appleton in his home state of Wisconsin. He works as a school resource officer and investigator . "I was somewhat prepared. I knew that law enforcement was my next step," Taschner said. "I didn't know what that looked like, but had the initial plan." Advertisement ___ At age 59, Mike Scioscia can only imagine what the day might look like when he's no longer in uniform, and he knows that's not too far off. Another former catcher now managing has seen players struggle through their departures from baseball. "I think it's a huge adjustment. I think everybody's different. A lot of us that are closer to retirement than just starting in this game. It's not that you dwell on it. But sure, it's a different lifestyle," the Los Angeles Angels manager said. "Most of these guys come through the minor leagues and even if they played for five years in the minor leagues and seven years in the major leagues, you're on a schedule for 12 years. Even that changes things when you wake up February and there's no spring training and you actually have a Fourth of July picnic at home, things that you take for granted," he said. "Some guys I know it's seamless, they go from one thing to another ... some guys it's just that their career ends and they're 33 years old or 34 years old and all of a sudden there's no spring training." From that first reporting day of spring through a six-month season with almost daily games, when it's all over the sense of loss can be overwhelming. "You always talk about that camaraderie and it's almost like working toward something bigger than just you," Matheny said. "It's hard to go find anything that could ever replicate what you had here." ___ Years later, Helton is accustomed to his new, far-different routine. At 44, he golfs, he goes fishing, he is director of player development for Tennessee's baseball team. He works out most mornings, while acknowledging "it's a lot harder to work out now when you don't have anything to work out for." Advertisement "I thought I was totally prepared for it. I knew it was coming, so it's not like it was any surprise. I was 40 years old and still playing," he said. "Stopping playing and taking your kids to and from school, that's a big adjustment. It was hard." He came to the point he appreciates being there for all his girls' after-school activities. Helton had to fight through being down the way he did a hitting slump. He had been No. 17 for so long. "Life's good again. It took a couple years," he said. "Every day's a Sunday for me." ___ More AP baseball coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 6:31 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  Some of Wall Street's heaviest hitters are stepping into the national debate on guns as investment firms ask firearms makers what they are doing about gun violence. The firms speak softly, but because they own trillions of dollars' worth of stock, their voices travel far. And they're now joining forces with some unusual allies, including smaller and untraditional investors. In this context, the investment fund BlackRock, which owns big stakes in three different gun makers, might end up working alongside a group of nuns. Sister Judith Byron, the director and coordinator of the Northwest Coalition for Responsible Investment, says her group and BlackRock appear to have similar ideas when it comes to gun manufacturers and retailers. Following the killing of 17 students and teachers at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, funds like BlackRock started asking gun manufacturers what they are doing to reduce the risks of gun violence, and asking retailers how much they make from selling guns. Byron says her group, a coalition of religious communities and health care systems, invested in firearms makers a decade ago and has been working on gun safety issues for years. In the last few months the coalition introduced resolutions pushing American Outdoor Brands, Sturm Ruger and retailer Dick's Sporting Goods to give reports to investors about the steps they are taking to reduce gun violence. Advertisement "We're hoping we can engage these big investors and encourage them to vote for our resolutions," she says. Advertisement Some larger investors have similar views. The biggest public pension funds in the U.S., CalPERS, recently refused to sell its investments in companies that sell assault rifles. It says that by remaining an investor, it's been able to get those companies to make positive changes. The nuns aren't protesters, and they don't carry props or signs to disrupt board meetings, although they sometimes work alongside groups that use those tactics. Byron says some of the shareholder meetings she's attended have been downright pleasant, with investors and board members thanking her for asking questions. Support from investment firms was crucial to the coalition's big success last year when, after decades of work, it backed a successful resolution that required oil giant Exxon Mobil to disclose the effects climate change is having on its business. Erik Gordon, a professor at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business, said companies are often reluctant to risk any sales in order to do the responsible thing. But it does sometimes happen, as when CVS stores stopped selling cigarettes in 2014. He said activists deserve most of the credit for getting the funds to speak out. "BlackRock didn't wake up one morning and say, 'We are going to take a different approach to investing, it's the right thing to do,'" he said. "It's a reaction to the activists."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The top priority of firms like BlackRock, State Street and mutual fund company Vanguard is to make as much money as possible for their clients. But because they own so much stock, they can wield a lot of influence: They can support new directors who want to change the direction of the company and back proposals that change the way it operates. BlackRock is a major shareholder in gun makers Sturm Ruger, American Outdoor Brands, and Vista Outdoor Brands. About a week after the shooting in Parkland, BlackRock said it wanted to speak with the three firearms makers about their responses to the tragedy. The fund said it is looking into creating new investment funds for investors that exclude firearms makers and retailers, and if many funds and investors followed suit, that would affect the price of those stocks. In a letter to BlackRock, American Outdoor Brands said it supports steps that will promote gun safety while protecting the rights of firearm owners. The company said it backs measures including improved background checks and improved support for people with mental illnesses, but said it's opposed to "politically motivated action" that won't improve public safety. Sturm Ruger did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Advertisement In other words, there are limits to the funds' power. They aren't choosy investors and won't dump the gun makers no matter what they say. That's because their main investment strategy to invest in huge numbers of companies, including every stock listed on the Standard & Poor's 500 index. According to Todd Rosenbluth, CFRA's director of research into funds and exchange-traded funds, that means BlackRock and Vanguard don't have that much leverage compared to activist investors or hedge funds. Those investors can have more dramatic effects on individual companies because they can buy up the stock, run for seats on the board themselves, or threaten to sell the shares if they don't like the company's choices. "They can use their wallet and sell the shares or they can pressure the companies and threaten to sell the shares if actions aren't taken," said Rosenbluth. So far, he said those investors aren't really getting involved in the debate. Still, there have been changes: Dick's, Walmart, Kroger and L. L. Bean have all said they will no longer sell guns to shoppers under the age of 21. Rosenbluth said that has more to do with the ongoing national debate about gun safety and regulations than anything the investment firms have said, and he believes laws will ultimately have a larger effect. But Byron, who also wants new gun laws, says she is encouraged by the response from corporate America. "We see companies taking leadership roles in environmental and social issues, which is encouraging," said Byron, adding that as shareholders, "they're our companies. We own them." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 7:47 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  The New York Yankees are on track to open the season this week with baseball's seventh-highest payroll, their lowest ranking since 1992, according to projections by The Associated Press. The Boston Red Sox will top the major leagues at about $223 million, ending the Los Angeles Dodgers' four-year run as the top spender. San Francisco will be second at around $203 million, and the Chicago Cubs are set to be third at about $183 million. The Dodgers and Washington Nationals will each be at approximately $180 million, and the Los Angeles Angels will be next at about $170 million. The Yankees will be at around $167 million — their lowest payroll since 2003. New York has not been ranked as low as seventh since 1992, when it finished ninth at $34.5 million in the final season of owner George Steinbrenner's 2½-year suspension. The Yankees rose to third the following year and topped the major leagues from 1994-97 and 1999-2013, interrupted by a season in which Baltimore finished $207,000 ahead. They were second to the Dodgers for each of the last four years. Advertisement "I think it's good for the game," said Yankees pitcher CC Sabathia, who took a cut from $25 million to $10 million this year. "Shows where the game is at as far as money wise. Hopefully that translates into more signings next offseason." Advertisement New York owner Hal Steinbrenner vowed to get under the luxury tax threshold for the first time since the current tax started in 2003. New York has paid $341 million in penalties over 15 years. Boston has not been the highest-spender since at least 1990, the earliest year figures compiled by Major League Baseball are readily available. If the Yankees and Dodgers stay under the threshold, their base tax rate would drop from 50 percent to 20 percent in 2019, putting them in better position next offseason for a free-agent class that includes Bryce Harper, Manny Machado and Josh Donaldson.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Dodgers set a record with a $270 million opening-day payroll in 2015 but lowered it to $234 million at the start of the following season and $226 million when 2017 began. Oakland and the Chicago White Sox project to have the lowest payrolls, at about $71 million. "I've been in Oakland most of my career. This seems big to me," said Yankees pitcher Sonny Gray, acquired from the Athletics last summer. "I don't know if all the time money dictates talent. But we have a ton of talent." Angels outfielder Mike Trout is the highest-paid player for the first time at $34.08 million, which includes a $33.25 million salary and a prorated share of his signing bonus. Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw dropped to second at $34 million after leading the list for three straight years. Arizona pitcher Zack Greinke fell one spot to third at $31.95 million, followed by a trio at $30 million: Philadelphia pitcher Jake Arrieta, Boston pitcher David Price and Detroit first baseman Miguel Cabrera. The average salary is on track to be around the same as last year's opening figure of $4.45 million, perhaps slightly higher. While many free agents took large cuts, other players with existing multiyear deals had large increases. Figures are based on rosters as of Monday afternoon, three days before opening-day rosters are set. They were obtained by the AP from management and player sources and include salaries and pro-rated shares of signing bonuses for players on the 25-man active roster and disabled lists. Termination pay for released players and buyouts for unexercised 2018 options are included, as are cash transactions in trades. ___ AP Sports Writer Paul Newberry and AP freelance writers Mark Didtler and Maureen Mullen contributed to this report. Advertisement ___ More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ANTHONY TOMMASINIMARCH 26, 2018
 It’s no secret that classical music institutions are struggling to attract new audiences. This challenge is often on my mind, but I had something of an epiphany about it on Sunday afternoon at Carnegie Hall. The place was packed for a concert performance of Handel’s opera “Rinaldo.” It was the latest in a series of nearly annual Handel performances at Carnegie by Harry Bicket and his English Concert ensemble; since 2013, this has become a beloved ritual for many. The exceptional cast of singers included the superb countertenor Iestyn Davies in the title role. (He had a busy Sunday: After “Rinaldo” he had to dash to the Belasco Theater for his closing night as the voice of a legendary castrato in “Farinelli and the King” on Broadway.) The Handel performance could not have been better. If I were recommending a program to someone fairly new to classical music, I wouldn’t immediately think of “Rinaldo” in concert. It’s long (nearly three hours of music) and, hewing to the conventions of Italian opera seria, it’s structured as a seemingly endless series of so-called da capo arias. Taken at face value, the story — a love tangle set during the Crusades — is full of improbable plot twists designed to let the characters milk some emotion and display their voices. Yet perhaps because Americans are enduring a period of fractious partisanship, disinformation and social media hysteria, performances that offer honesty and insight are like salves. The authenticity of this “Rinaldo” was like a clarifying gift. I kept thinking that even newcomers to classical music would “get” what’s profoundly true about Handel’s work and these fine artists. Advertisement If the libretto contorts itself again and again, Handel seizes each opportunity to explore complex emotions through wondrous music. This comes through in the first aria for Rinaldo, a Christian hero, who loves Almirena (the radiant soprano Joélle Harvey), the winsome daughter of Goffredo (the dark-voiced mezzo-soprano Sasha Cooke), the captain of the Christian armies intent on seizing Jerusalem from the Saracen king Argante (the robust bass-baritone Luca Pisaroni). Advertisement Contemplating the coming battle and his future with Almirena, Rinaldo feels the sting of fear along with the pain of love delayed. Handel’s music conveys that confusion with vocal lines that seem at once weighed down with poignancy and restless with skittish flights. Mr. Davies sang with a beguiling mixture of lustrous sound and vulnerable intensity. Even in seemingly melodramatic scenes, Handel digs deep and explores multilayered emotions. Armida, the queen of Damascus and a willful sorceress, has a furious aria when, after having fallen for the handsome Rinaldo, she vents her anger at his cold rebuff. The music suggests that conquest over someone is a driving element of love, and the soprano Jane Archibald brought to it cool intensity and big, bright sound. The young countertenor Jakub Jozef Orlinski also deserves mention for his winning performance as Eustazio, Goffredo’s brother. I’m not suggesting that “Rinaldo” is an entirely enlightened work for our time. We’re supposed to cheer the Christian forces prevailing over the Saracens and their religion. But by embracing every element of this work and performing it so sensitively, the musicians made the opera’s humanity and greatness come through. Authenticity matters, more than ever.  RinaldoPerformed Sunday at Carnegie Hall. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:56 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  British Jewish groups held a street protest outside parliament on Monday against opposition Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn, accusing him of failing to tackle anti-Semitism in party ranks because of a far-left world view hostile to Jews. Since unexpectedly becoming Labour leader in 2015 after decades spent on the left-wing fringes of the party, Corbyn has repeatedly faced accusations of turning a blind eye to anti-Semitic comments in the party and among groups he supports. "He is repeatedly found alongside people with blatantly anti-Semitic views, but claims never to hear or read them. Again and again, Jeremy Corbyn has sided with anti-Semites rather than Jews," the Board of Deputies of British Jews and the Jewish Leadership Council said in an open letter late on Sunday. Around a couple of thousand protesters packed out the green opposite parliament, carrying signs and singing, according to a Reuters photographer at the event. Advertisement One of the placards read "For the many, not the Jew" - a play on Labour's "For the many, not the few" campaign slogan. Advertisement Corbyn responded on Monday with an open letter to both groups in which he recognized that anti-Semitism had surfaced within his party, apologized for the pain this had caused, and pledged to redouble his efforts to stamp it out. He offered to meet both groups' leaders urgently to discuss their concerns. The issue had flared up again last week after it came to light that in 2012 Corbyn questioned a decision by London local authorities to remove a street mural depicting men in suits with big noses playing Monopoly on the backs of naked people. "The idea of Jewish bankers and capitalists exploiting the workers of the world is an old anti-Semitic conspiracy theory," Corbyn wrote in his open letter on Monday. "I am sorry for not having studied the content of the mural more closely before wrongly questioning its removal in 2012."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Several Labour members of parliament said they would join the protest on Monday, exposing internal divisions within Labour that had been papered over after Corbyn led the party to a stronger-than-expected showing in a general election last June. "While Jeremy is not himself anti-Semitic, he has allowed himself to become the poster boy of anti-Semites everywhere," said veteran Labour lawmaker Margaret Hodge, the daughter of Jewish refugees from Germany and Austria, in a statement. In their open letter, the Jewish groups denounced what they described as the far left's "obsessive hatred of Zionism, Zionists and Israel" and gave examples of how that often translated into overtly anti-Semitic language. They said Corbyn's "empty statements" condemning anti-Semitism had got nowhere near dealing with the problem. In his response, Corbyn, a vocal supporter of Palestinian rights and critic of Israel for several decades, acknowledged that anti-Semitism had sometimes been woven into criticism of Israel. "Comparing Israel or the actions of Israeli governments to the Nazis, attributing criticisms of Israel to Jewish characteristics or to Jewish people in general and using abusive phraseology about supporters of Israel such as 'Zio' all constitute aspects of contemporary anti-Semitism," he wrote. (Reporting by Estelle Shirbon and Henry Nicholls, additional reporting by Andy Bruce; Editing by Richard Balmforth and Catherine Evans) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By STEVE LOHRMARCH 26, 2018
 The Federal Communications Commission is joining the Trump administration, Congress and other government agencies that have targeted Huawei, China’s giant telecommunications equipment maker, as a national security risk. Ajit Pai, chairman of the commission, on Monday proposed a rule to tighten restrictions on companies building internet infrastructure in the United States. Part of the rule’s impact may be to further crimp Huawei’s meager sales in America by potentially affecting some deals with small and rural carriers, analysts said. The proposed F.C.C. rule would prohibit carriers from using money from the Universal Service Fund to buy gear from companies deemed to pose national security risks. The $8.5 billion fund subsidizes phone, wireless and broadband service to poor and remote communities. Its money comes from small monthly fees on consumers’ phone bills. A first draft of the proposed rule will be published on Tuesday, starting a public comment period. An initial vote on the proposed rule will take place at an agency meeting on April 17. Advertisement The proposed rule does not mention Huawei by name. Instead, it says it would apply to any telecom supplier or subcontractor defined as a security risk. The agency also said it had not yet determined how it would identify companies that posed a risk to telecom systems, particularly as spying tools. Advertisement But there was no doubt that Huawei was a target of the proposal. The commission said it might decide to follow the lead of intelligence agencies and Congress. In its military spending authorization, Congress has prohibited the Pentagon from buying network equipment from either Huawei or ZTE, another Chinese equipment maker. The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Huawei declined to comment. American government policies and regulations, going back years and motivated by security concerns, have already hobbled Huawei’s access to the American market. The big Chinese company had worldwide revenue of more than $90 billion last year. In the United States, its sales were $200 million to $300 million, analysts estimate. Most of the American sales are smartphones, though it does sell some network equipment to small and rural telecom carriers. “This is one more step in the broader confrontation with China,” said Doug Brake, director of telecom policy at the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a nonpartisan research organization. The Russian software company Kaspersky Lab is also on the banned list, after accusations that its antivirus software was a back door for surveillance by Russia’s intelligence agencies. Kaspersky has denied those accusations. The F.C.C. proposal adds to recent moves by Washington to limit the reach of foreign tech companies in the United States. This month, President Trump blocked Broadcom’s $117 billion takeover bid for Qualcomm, a leading maker of smartphone chips. In his order, Mr. Trump said “credible evidence” had led him to believe that if Singapore-based Broadcom acquired control of Qualcomm, it “might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States.” Huawei animated those concerns. The administration’s theory was that to make the costly deal pay off, Broadcom would cut back research spending by Qualcomm, undermining its ability to be a leader in next-generation wireless technology, so-called 5G. And that would further open the door for Huawei to win the race for 5G, a critical technology for the economy and for national security. Mr. Pai, a Republican, was encouraged to take action by Congress, specifically in a letter on Sept. 20 from Senator Tom Cotton, an Arkansas Republican. Later briefings with intelligence agencies added to Mr. Pai’s determination to propose the rule, senior F.C.C. officials said. Follow Steve Lohr on Twitter: @SteveLohr. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:08 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  Just like their counterparts in baseball, cricket players are capable of devising devious ways of getting some extra movement on a thrown ball. Cutting, scratching, greasing or even biting the ball are all options that have been employed in the past to help get batters out. In most cases, it's called cheating, plain and simple. But what happened over the weekend in cricket, the most gentlemanly of all sports, is much more than that. It has brought shame on Australia as a nation. In South Africa for a series for four test matches, each lasting a maximum of five days, the Australians were caught red-handed trying to scuff the cricket ball with dirt stuck to a piece of yellow tape. The captain of the team, who happens to be the best batsman in the world, confessed to conspiring to cheat by getting a younger player to do the dirty deed. Advertisement Steve Smith, the captain, has been banned for the last test match of the series. Cameron Bancroft, the player with the yellow tape, is still available to play. Advertisement "This is a shocking disappointment," Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said Sunday, a day after the incident. "It's wrong." It's also, as they say, just not cricket. There have been many cases of ball tampering in the past. Like when former Pakistan captain Shahid Afridi bit the ball to rough up the leather against Australia in 2010. Or when England bowler Stuart Broad stepped on the ball with his spikes against South Africa, also in 2010. In both instances, the point was to disfigure the ball enough so the flight path becomes more erratic and more difficult to hit. In baseball, there is an equally entertaining list of ne'er-do-wells. There's Gaylord Perry and his vaseline, culminating with a classic ESPN commercial . There's Rick Honneycutt and his thumbtack. And, of course, Joe Niekro and his emery board . That just wasn't cricket, either. But one of the reasons why this cricket scandal is such a big deal, or at least a bigger deal than some of the others, is because the cheating was done by Australia, the most successful team in the sport over the last 30 years, on the international sporting stage.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Australians pride themselves on sports, and cricket is right up there near the top of the list. The importance the country puts on its national cricket team can hardly be understated, dating back to its 150-year rivalry with England and its later independence from Britain in 1901. It is Australia and England, and only Australia and England, that play for the sport's most coveted trophy, the Ashes. And, as noted, the Australians have set the benchmark for success in cricket, making them a target for everyone else trying to climb up the rankings. Advertisement "You have to remember that this Australia team are so friendless in cricket because of the way they've carried on," former England spin bowler Graeme Swann told BBC Radio. "They've set themselves as this higher than high, this pious team who look down at everyone and set the benchmark for what is right and wrong in cricket, when everyone who's played against them knows that's an absolute joke." Swann may be right, especially if you look back at one of the most underhanded moments in cricket's long history. It happened in 1981, with Australia playing New Zealand in a one-day match. With only one ball left to be thrown, then-Australia captain Greg Chappell instructed his younger brother, Trevor, to bowl an underarm delivery to keep New Zealand from scoring the winning runs. Trevor Chappell rolled the ball along the wicket, a legal move at the time, giving the Kiwi batsman no chance to hit it. Australia won that match, but didn't win much respect in the most aristocratic team sport in the world. ___ This story has been corrected to show that Australia is no longer the top-ranked team in cricket. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:17 A.M. E.D.T.
 EDMONTON, Alberta —  In the midst of a tight playoff race, the Anaheim Ducks showed determination in a come-from-behind win Sunday night. Hampus Lindholm scored 1:21 into overtime to lift the Ducks over the Edmonton Oilers 5-4. Adam Henrique had two goals and Josh Manson and Corey Perry also scored for the Ducks, who are on a 5-0-1 streak. "At the end of the day, it was more about every guy looking at themselves in the mirror," Lindholm said. "It started with us (defense) really skating the puck. We talked about it before the game and we really did it. "As soon as our D start moving pucks, we help our forwards out a lot and I think that creates a lot of offence for us and that's something we have to keep doing more." Advertisement Connor McDavid, Ty Rattie, Leon Draisaitl and Ethan Bear scored for the Oilers, who ended a three-game winning streak. Advertisement "I give them credit," Oilers goalie Cam Talbot said. "They needed the points, and they came out in the third. They wanted it more in the third and we got away from what made us successful in the first two periods." Anaheim has 91 points and is two up on the Los Angeles Kings (89) for third in the Pacific Division. After a scoreless first period, Edmonton scored 1:46 into the second when McDavid beat goalie John Gibson with a long-range wrist shot for his 39th of the season. The lead lasted only 19 seconds, until Manson sneaked one past Talbot on a similar shot. The Oilers retook the lead eight minutes into the second when McDavid got his 98th point by setting up a shot by defenseman Matt Benning that was tipped by Rattie.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Edmonton went up 3-1 with 1:42 left in the second on a one-time blast from a bad angle by Draisiatl, his 24th. The Ducks cut it to 3-2 two minutes into the third when Marcus Pettersson's shot caromed off Henrique. Anaheim tied it four minutes later when Perry scored his 17th goal off a rebound out front. Edmonton surged back on a power play when McDavid set up Bear for his first career goal. "It was a really good feeling and at the same time a big sigh of relief," Bear said. "It is something you dream about your whole life. To get that first one, it feels really good." The Ducks pulled even once again with just 1:29 left in the third when Henrique's shot banked in off defender Darnell Nurse. NOTES: It was the final of four meetings between the teams this season, with Edmonton winning two of the first three. ... Ducks C Ryan Getzlaf returned after missing the last game with an illness. UP NEXT Ducks: Visit Vancouver on Tuesday night. Oilers: Host Columbus on Tuesday night. ___ More AP hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:58 P.M. E.D.T.
 LONDON —  British shares fell on Monday, reversing earlier gains and joining a broader pull-back in Europe where diplomatic tensions with Russia helped more than offset easing trade war fears. The FTSE 100 fell 0.4 percent to 6.888.7 points, its lowest closing level in 15 months and staying below the key 7,000 points mark for the third day running. The index had earlier risen as much as 0.5 percent following a report that the U.S. has contacted China seeking measures to reduce their trade imbalance. Then the United States said it would expel 60 Russian diplomats, joining governments across Europe punishing the Kremlin for a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain that they have blamed on Moscow. Advertisement Strength in the pound, which rose against the dollar on growing confidence that the Bank of England would raise interest rates in May, also did not help. Advertisement Big international companies such as GlaxoSmithKline, Experian and BAT fell between 0.6 and 2.1 percent. Consumer staples and materials weighed the most, wiping off a combined 17 points from the index. Top FTSE loser was Smurfit Kappa, which fell 4.1 percent after the firm spurned a renewed offer from International Paper. Having jumped to a record high on news of the takeover approach early this month, Smurfit's shares are now down more than 7 percent from that peak. Fresnillo was the biggest gainer, up 4.5 percent after Goldman Sachs analysts upgraded the stock to "buy" and added it to their "conviction list", based on their bullish position on gold.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Our commodities team is bullish on gold for the first time in more than five years based on higher inflation, rising EM wealth and concerns about an equity correction," wrote Goldman strategists, upgrading the whole gold mining sector. Randgold Resources also gained 1.1 percent after the Goldman upgrade to "buy". Among mid-caps, JD Sports fell 4.7 percent after agreeing to buy Finish Line, one of the largest retailers of athletic footwear and apparel in the United States, for $558 million. Inchcape rose 2.2 percent after saying it would buy Grupo Rudelman, an auto distribution business in Central America. Dana Inc increased its cash offer for GKN by $140 million, ramping up its efforts to fend off rival suitor Melrose. GKN shares rose 0.6 percent. Advertisement Tools and equipment hire company Speedy Hire rose 8.1 percent after saying full-year profits were likely to be ahead of expectations. Overall, analysts are downgrading their estimates for FTSE 100 earnings, and the leading UK index has underperformed European peers over the past 12 months. (GRAPHIC: FTSE 100 lags European peers - https://reut.rs/2Ga5emM) (Reporting by Helen Reid; Editing by David Stamp and Andrew Heavens) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 11:59 P.M. E.D.T.
 WINNIPEG, Manitoba —  Captain Blake Wheeler wasn't certain at the beginning of the season if his Winnipeg Jets would contend for a playoff spot. Now he has his answer. Mark Scheifele scored the only goal in a shootout and the Winnipeg Jets clinched a playoff spot with a 5-4 win over the Nashville Predators on Sunday night. The Jets are in the postseason for the first time since 2014-15 and just the second time since their move from Atlanta before the 2011-12 season. The franchise hasn't won a playoff series since 2007. "A lot of uncertainty coming into the year, where we were going to be," said Wheeler, who has been with Winnipeg since the relocation. "I don't think many people thought we were going to be where we are at, a playoff team. Every single guy in here has had a huge part in that. It's a big moment for our team and for our organization." Advertisement Jets rookie Kyle Connor scored a power-play goal and had two assists, giving him seven goals in six games. That includes a pair of overtime goals in Winnipeg's previous two games and gives him 29 on the season. That's tied with Vancouver's Brock Boeser for the rookie goal scoring lead. Boeser's season ended March 5 with a fracture in his lower back. Advertisement "He's one of the single biggest reasons why we are where we are," Wheeler said. "(Connor has) put up nearly 30 goals and is a real impact player playing with Mark Scheifele and I. It's quite a surprise." Dustin Byfuglien also scored on the power play, and Bryan Little and Blake Wheeler each added a goal and an assist for Winnipeg. Kyle Turris, Ryan Ellis, and Viktor Arvidsson each had a goal and an assist, and Roman Josi also scored for the Predators. Nashville backup Juuse Saros stopped 43 shots while the defending Western Conference champions rested their Vezina Trophy candidate Pekka Rinne after playing the night before in Minnesota.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Connor Hellebuyck made 32 saves for the Jets, improving to 39-11-0. The clubs have combined for 41 goals in five meetings this season. "There's a lot of people shooting the puck out there. They got a lot of talent on their team," Predators coach Peter Laviolette said. "Our guys do a pretty good job scoring goals. I can't explain it. Both teams have good goaltending. Both teams played pretty good defense, but offense seems to rule the day." The Predators went 1 for 5 on the power play. Turris's 14th put the Predators up 2-0 with less than one second remaining in the first period. The Jets' two goals with the man advantage put their power play at 2 for 5. "I think playoffs are a lot different, to be honest with you," said Predators defenseman Mattias Ekholm when asked about potentially meeting the Jets in the postseason. Advertisement "It's most likely going to be the same players, so I wouldn't expect anything much different. But playoffs are playoffs. I know on our part, we're going to tighten up defensively, for sure." NOTES: The Jets trail the Predators by five points for first in the Central Division with seven games remaining in the regular season. UP NEXT Predators: Start a three-game homestand against Minnesota on Tuesday night. Jets: Complete a six-game homestand against Boston on Tuesday night. ___ More AP hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:22 P.M. E.D.T.
 MILAN —  European shares fell on Monday as a late surge in the euro and diplomatic tensions with Russia more than offset hopes that the protectionist shift in U.S. trade policy may be more selective and tactical than first feared. The regional STOXX 600 benchmark fell 0.7 percent to its lowest level since February 2017, having earlier gained as much as 0.6 percent following reports the United States and China had quietly started negotiations to improve U.S. access to Chinese markets. "Exemptions on steel/aluminium tariffs have already been granted for other important trade partners, which suggests the U.S. president is using this approach more for negotiating leverage rather than any real intention to start a global trade war", said Accendo Markets head of research Mike van Dulken. He noted that China's response so far was "measured" and "nuanced". European equity markets however slipped into negative territory as the euro gained further strength. Traders said sentiment was also dented by growing diplomatic tensions between Western countries and Russia. Advertisement "Despite a bright opening in the U.S. with Wall Street seeing early gains of over 1.5 percent, increased geopolitical tensions with Russia ensured that volatility was alive and kicking," said Fiona Cincotta, Senior Market Analyst at City Index. Advertisement The United States said on Monday it would expel 60 Russian diplomats, joining governments across Europe punishing the Kremlin for a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain that they have blamed on Moscow. A sales trader at a European brokerage however said he did not see how these tensions could have any big impact on global economic growth. Stocks exposed to Russia were mixed. Raiffeisen rose 2.5 percent, helped by a price target upgrade at Deutsche Bank, while Renault gained 0.3 percent, Carlsberg slipped 0.5 percent, and Buzzi Unicem dropped 3.2 percent.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Among other European benchmarks, Spain's IBEX dipped only 0.1 percent, after the country's second ratings upgrade of the year led to a further outperformance of its bond market over euro zone peers. Italy's FTSE MIB underperformed, down 1.2 percent, as speculation grows the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement and anti-migrant League might explore an alliance to form a government. The political uncertainty triggered a rise in Italian bond yields. Italian banks, widely used as proxies to trade political risk in the country, fell 1.7 percent. Elsewhere, Fresnillo rose 4.6 percent to lead gainers on the STOXX after an upgrade to "buy" from Goldman Sachs, which also added the miner to its "conviction list". Other top gainers were Zurich Insurance and Indivior, both up more than 3 percent. Smurfit Kappa fell 3.4 percent after it rejected a revised takeover offer from International Paper. (Reporting by Danilo Masoni; Additional reporting by Julien Ponthus; Editing by Andrew Heavens) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:46 P.M. E.D.T.
 (Reuters) - Commercial real estate company Brookfield Property Partners LP said on Monday it would acquire the 66 percent of GGP Inc that it does not already own in a cash-and-stock deal that values GGP, one of the largest owners and operators of U.S. shopping centres, at about $15.3 billion (£10.8 billion). The deal comes as many malls struggle to retain tenants amid the brick-and-mortar retail sector's downturn. The acquisition will strengthen Brookfield Property's negotiating power with retailers and allow it to repurpose some GGP properties. "Having Brookfield’s expertise in offices, hotels and multi-family residential properties will allow the combined company to draw more value from the GGP mall assets," Brookfield Property Chief Executive Brian Kingston told Reuters in an interview. The agreement comes four months after a special board committee of GGP rejected a $14.8 billion cash-and-stock offer from Brookfield Property as inadequate. Advertisement Brookfield Property, which is also a major owner of U.S. office properties, is currently GGP's largest shareholder with a 34 percent stake. Advertisement Under Brookfield Property's latest offer, which was first reported by Reuters earlier this month, GGP shareholders can elect to receive $23.50 in cash per share, or either one Brookfield unit or one newly created share that trades as a real estate investment trust (REIT). GGP shares ended trading on Monday at $21.21. The complex deal structure is the result of a compromise between Brookfield Property, which wanted to continue to trade as a publicly listed partnership, and GGP's special committee, which wanted GGP shareholders to continue to own a REIT security, if they so choose.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The cash consideration in the deal was increased by $1.85 billion to $9.25 billion. Instead of a 50/50 split under Brookfield Property's previous offer, cash now represents 61 percent of the total deal. With about 127 "Class A" high-end mall properties, mostly in the United States, GGP's tenants include carmaker Tesla Inc, jeweller Tiffany & Co and retailer Macy's Inc. It is not the first time Brookfield Property’s attempt to take over a REIT in which it already owns a big stake was rejected, only for it to subsequently succeed. In 2016, Rouse Properties Inc, another U.S. mall owner, rejected an offer by Brookfield Property, its largest shareholder. It eventually agreed to a sweetened $2.8 billion offer. Goldman Sachs Group Inc served as financial adviser and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP served as legal counsel to GGP’s special committee. Citigroup Inc served as financial adviser and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP served as legal counsel to GGP. Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, Goodwin Procter LLP and Torys LLP served as legal counsel to Brookfield Property. (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis and Carl O'Donnell in New York; Additional reporting by Manas Mishra and Sanjana Shivdas in Bengaluru; Editing by Leslie Adler and Lisa Shumaker) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:13 P.M. E.D.T.
 TOPEKA, Kan. —  A water park company's co-owner was arrested Monday in Texas in connection with a Kansas criminal case arising from a 10-year-old boy's death on what was promoted as the world's largest waterslide. Records show that Jeffrey Henry, co-owner of Schlitterbahn Waterparks and Resorts, was booked into the jail in Cameron County, Texas. He was being held without bond, and a jail booking clerk said he would remain there until a court appearance Tuesday. Henry's arrest follows a Kansas grand jury's indictment last week of the Schlitterbahn park in Kansas City, Kansas, and its former operations director, Tyler Austin Miles, on 20 felony charges. They included a single count of involuntary manslaughter over the death of Caleb Schwab in 2016. Schlitterbahn spokeswoman Winter Prosapio said in a statement that considering last week's indictment, the company is not surprised by Henry's arrest. The company also promised to aggressively fight the criminal charges against Miles and the park, and respond to the allegations in the 47-page indictment "point by point." Advertisement "We as a company and as a family will fight these allegations and have confidence that once the facts are presented it will be clear that what happened on the ride was an unforeseeable accident," she said in an emailed statement. Advertisement Attorney General Derek Schmidt's office did not immediately respond to phone calls and emails seeking further comment, details about Henry's arrest, or information about exactly what criminal charges he faces. The Kansas City Star reported that Henry was taken into custody by U.S. marshals out of Brownsville, Texas. Prosapio said Schlitterbahn does not expect any changes to the Kansas City park's season, which is set to open May 25 and run through Labor Day. The big slide there — Verruckt, or German for "insane" — has been closed since Caleb died. The boy was decapitated after the raft on which he was riding went airborne. He was the son of Republican state Rep. Scott Schwab, of Olathe, and the family reached settlements of nearly $20 million with Schlitterbahn and various companies associated with the design and construction of the waterslide. The two women who rode with Caleb suffered serious injuries and settled claims with Schlitterbahn for an undisclosed amount.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The indictment against Miles and the park alleges that Verruckt met few, if any, industry standards and that Miles delayed or avoided necessary repairs, even after the ride's brake system failed. The indictment also said Henry helped design the giant waterslide even though he had "no technical or engineering credentials" and that he set a "rushed timeline" for its construction. Schlitterbahn said last week's indictment is "full of false information," and the company also rejected its allegations that Miles and the company withheld information from law enforcement officials. It said the allegation that Caleb's death was foreseeable is "beyond the pale of speculation." Miles' attorneys said in their own statement that they welcome the opportunity to prove his innocence in court. Advertisement "Not only had Tyler ridden the slide numerous times, but, as the State is aware, he had scheduled his wife, to ride it on the day of the accident," the attorneys, Tom and Tricia Bath, said in their statement. "These are not the actions of someone who believed the ride to be dangerous." ___ This story has been corrected to show that the Schlitterbahn co-owner's first name is Jeffrey. ___ Also contributing was Terry Wallace in Dallas, Texas. ___ Follow John Hanna on Twitter: https://twitter.com/apjdhanna . We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:56 A.M. E.D.T.
 CAPE TOWN —  Australian cricketer Cameron Bancroft may have got away with his now infamous attempt to alter the condition of the ball in the third test against South Africa at Newlands had he not panicked and stuffed the evidence down his trousers. That is the belief of Alvin Naicker, the head of production at host broadcaster SuperSport and the man in the director's chair who broke one of cricket's greatest scandals. Bancroft was caught on camera placing sticky yellow tape, which he used to pick up rough granules off the pitch, into the front of his pants when he believed his cheat had been spotted by the umpires. The fall-out from the incident has cost captain Steve Smith and his deputy David Warner their positions, for the remainder of the match at least, and thrown both players' future in the baggy green cap into doubt, leaving a nation seething. Advertisement "We initially just saw that he had something in his hand and he put it in his pocket, but we didn't know what it was," Naicker told Reuters on Monday. Advertisement "It was only when he later panicked and put it in his underpants that we got sight of the yellow tape." After the images of Bancroft putting something in his pocket appeared on the big screen at the ground, umpires Nigel Llong and Richard Illingworth called the player over. He produced a black piece of cloth used to clean sunglasses from his pocket and the umpires were, at the time, satisfied. Naicker believes that had Bancroft kept the piece of yellow tape in his pocket and still produced the black cloth for the umpires, giving him the opportunity to dispose of the tape later, nobody would be the wiser. "The moment he tried to dispose of it in his pants, we knew that this was a major incident. Until then, we were not sure what we were looking at."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. FOLLOW THE BALL Naicker adds they had not been tracking Bancroft specifically, but it is standard for the broadcaster to follow the ball from player to player, even when it is not in play. "We have seven cameras that stay with the ball always, whether it is in play or not," he revealed. "But there are a lot more cameras, we had 30 at the ground." Naicker says they broadcast the footage of him rubbing the ball with the then unknown object almost immediately after the incident. Advertisement "He (Bancroft) probably saw it two minutes after it happened and very smartly our cameraman focused on the coaching staff and we saw the coach (Darren Lehmann) get on the walkie-talkie to the player down on the field (Peter Handscomb), who ran on to speak with Bancroft. It was then he panicked." The 'follow the ball' policy is something Naicker says is done in every test and they were neither asked to do it, nor were driven by any other previous suspicious behaviour. "We don't want it to seem like we are going after the Australian team," he said. "If that was a South African, we would have broadcast the footage for sure. "We have a responsibility to entertain, but just like journalists we have a moral obligation to provide unbiased editorial." (Reporting By Nick Said; Editing by Christian Radnedge) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:59 A.M. E.D.T.
 KARACHI, Pakistan —  The trouble-free Pakistan Super League (PSL) cricket final, held in Karachi on Sunday amid a festival atmosphere, has reignited calls for foreign national teams to look past security concerns and play regular cricket in Pakistan. The South Asian nation has largely been starved of international cricket since the 2009 attack on a bus ferrying Sri Lankan cricketers in Lahore which killed eight Pakistanis as well as wounding six players and a British coach. Pakistan's biggest city ground to a halt for several hours on Sunday as fans packed restaurants and cafes to watch Islamabad United defeat defending champion Peshawar Zalmi by three wickets after being set a 148-9 target. "This is a very big historic occasion," Najam Sethi, Pakistan Cricket Board chairman told fans in the stadium just before the culmination of the Twenty20 league started. Advertisement "You have filled this stadium and shown the world that we are ready for the return of the international cricket." Advertisement In its third year, the PSL has become a phenomenal success in the cricket-obsessed nation of 208 million but security concerns mean many of the group games and Pakistan's international test matches are played in the Middle East. Ahead of Sunday's final, the first major cricket event in Karachi since the Sri Lanka bus attack, key roads leading to the stadium were closed and checkpoints erected amid tight security. Despite temperatures soaring to 38 degrees Celsius, many fans queued for hours to get into the stadium early to catch a glimpse of the local and foreign players whose popularity has soared in the run up to the final. "We are happy on return of international cricket to Karachi," said Ahmed Alam, 20, an engineering university student on his way to the stadium clutching bottles of chilled water and packets of potato snacks.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Cricket was unjustly kept away from Karachi for so long. Such matches could be held here much before." WINDIES SERIES Pakistan's Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi said the successful hosting of the PSL final "was a victory of the entire nation". Pakistani officials are keen to repair the country's image and reassure sceptical foreign nations, especially the more reluctant Western countries, that security is now good enough host major events. Since the bus attack, Pakistan has hosted Zimbabwe, a World XI, and a Sri Lanka team for limited overs matches, all at Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium. Advertisement Pakistan also received a further boost earlier this month when West Indies agreed to play a three-match Twenty20 series in Karachi in the first week of April. "I am looking forward to playing more cricket here, I have enjoyed it," Darren Sammy, a West Indies cricketer and Peshawar Zalmi captain, told local Geo Super TV channel after the game. The fans are excited at the prospect of more cricket inside Pakistan. "West Indies' three matches at Karachi next month truly heralds the return of international cricket to Pakistan," added Alam, the student. "It's a real treat for the people of this city." (Writing by Drazen Jorgic; Editing by John O'Brien) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by By The Associated Press LOS ANGELES — From "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" to "War of the Worlds," the cast and crew behind "Ready Player One" pick their favorite Steven Spielberg film. TYE SHERIDAN, "Parzival/Wade" "'E.T. (the Extra-Terrestrial)' I think. It's that story of an unlikely friendship with someone who is an 'alien' which I think is so relatable because a lot of us feel alienated and isolated in our own lives because we're the only ones who can truly feel what we feel. To have a character that is completely foreign to a world is kind of a metaphor for me. That feeling that everybody feels out their own place in their world. And the friendship between E.T. and Elliott. That movie played hundreds of times in my childhood." LENA WAITHE, "Aech/Helen" "I've got a lot. I mean look, I'm a black lesbian so I can't not say 'The Color Purple,' but I also really love 'Jurassic Park' and 'E.T.' I also like 'Lincoln,' I just thought it was a really well-made movie and Daniel Day-Lewis is phenomenal. Also 'Catch Me If You Can' is really dope, I feel like it's one of the more slept on movies. I just really love the way he tells a story. I love how he tells stories." OLIVIA COOKE, "Art3mis/Samantha" "I have to say 'Hook.' The world that he created is just mind-blowing. I know he's spoken about how he didn't have the best time because it was just kids, but I grew up on that movie. I loved it and I thought it was so magical and awe-inspiring and I wanted Robin Williams to be my dad and I think it just encapsulates pure imagination and also the mentality of kids banding together for the greater good, who do have the greatest moral compass and aren't tampered by adult bitterness and by life." ZAK PENN, Co-Screenwriter "The easiest answer for me to give is 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind' because I think it's one of the most unique. It tells a story through sound and image. Every time you hear those notes or every time you see an image of the devil tower the story shifts. It's so hard to tell a story that way. And it's a movie I loved. But I mean look, it's really tough. I love so many of his films. I'm a big fan of 'War of the Worlds.' I don't think it is as perfect a movie as 'Raiders (of the Lost Ark),' and I think 'Close Encounters' is a perfect movie, but 'War of the Worlds,' man does that hold up well. I've watched it so many times. But he makes so many different kinds of movies. Like 'Schindler's List.' How do I not include that in my favorites list? The only reason I don't is because it's so devastating. It's not easy with Steven." ERNEST CLINE, Author and Co-Screenwriter "It's this one ('Ready Player One'). I can't help it. But my second favorite would be 'E.T.' It meant so much to me as a kid and that's why my favorite moment in 'Ready Player One' is when Wade is on the washer and dryer and looking out the window and dreaming of a better life. It's such an Amblin moment. It's Sean Astin in 'The Goonies' or Henry Thomas in 'E.T.' when he's at the sink and he's looking out the window and the steam is rising and he's dreaming of a better life. That inspired me to write this story and then the guy who did that ended up executing my idea. It's pretty great." Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:41 P.M. E.D.T.
 ORLANDO, Fla. —  Every marriage has its ups and downs. So New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft urged everyone not to read too much into any reported discord in his organization. Kraft praised Bill Belichick on Monday when asked about some of the unusual decisions the coach made in the Super Bowl loss to Philadelphia. As for any split among owner, coach and star quarterback, Kraft said he has learned to work with "a strong and powerful coach." "The so-called tension gets greater when you lose," Kraft added. And with Brady, Kraft noted that the "feeling of a loss is worse than the feeling of a win" in a Super Bowl, except for that first victory. Advertisement "I think Tommy is in that category." Kraft spoke to media at the NFL owners meetings and was grilled about everything from whether All-Pro tight end Rob Gronkowski will return for another season (Kraft never really answered, though he said he'd seen Gronkowski at the team facility this offseason) to why cornerback Malcolm Butler, now with the Titans, was benched for the Super Bowl. Advertisement Mostly, the questions were about friction in New England. Kraft said he has met with both Belichick and Brady, something he does regularly. "I have faith in Bill as coach," Kraft said. "I don't think there's anyone (else) who has the football knowledge and expertise and understands personnel and is able to merge those. As someone privileged to own one of these teams, I encourage him to keep going with his instincts. "This is not an energy firm where you go from A to B to C to D. I think Bill's structure has been pretty good most of the time and has worked pretty well." Kraft admitted he was perplexed that Butler, a Super Bowl hero in the 2015 game, didn't play against the Eagles. But he acknowledged he was looking at it from a fan's viewpoint.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "There's no doubt in my mind that if he is doing it for the right reason," Kraft said of Belichick's decision, "I support it. I haven't had one instance where Bill has done any decision that was not in the best interest of the team." While noting that Brady had an unparalleled season as a 40-year-old quarterback, including his third career MVP award, Kraft also recognized how difficult the final game of the 2017 season was for Brady. "You don't get public with your feelings two weeks after a Super Bowl loss," he said. Kraft got emotional when concluding the session by talking about lending the team's airplane to students from Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida so they could attend the "March For Our Lives" in Washington on the weekend. "When they called and asked would you send a plane and help take the wounded kids and their families and kids who couldn't go on a normal plane, we didn't hesitate a minute," Kraft said. "Because think of it, all of you who have kids, think about losing one of your kids. You wake up in the morning and they go to school and don't come home at night. Advertisement "I just thought this is a way for our organization to be able to reach out to those people who are hurting bad. I can't think of a worse, unnatural thing of losing your child." Then Kraft, a donor to the Trump campaign, criticized the legislative process and current environment in the nation's capital. "I have a big problem with what's going on in Washington and the divisiveness," he said, "and no one's listening to one another and forgetting where you stand on this issue." ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By NEIL GENZLINGERMARCH 26, 2018
 Linda Brown, whose father objected when she was not allowed to attend an all-white school in her neighborhood and who thus came to symbolize one of the most transformative court proceedings in American history, the school desegregation case Brown v. Board of Education, died on Sunday in Topeka, Kan. She was 75. Her death was confirmed on Monday by a spokesman for the Peaceful Rest Funeral Chapel in Topeka, which is handling her funeral arrangements. He did not specify the cause. It is Ms. Brown’s father, Oliver, whose name is attached to the famous case, although the suit that ended up in the United States Supreme Court actually represented a number of families in several states. In 1954, in a unanimous decision, the court ruled that segregated schools were inherently unequal. The decision upended decades’ worth of educational practice, in the South and elsewhere, and its ramifications are still being felt. Linda Brown was born on Feb. 20, 1943, in Topeka to Leola and Oliver Brown, according to the funeral home. (Some sources say she was born in 1942.) Cheryl Brown Henderson, Linda’s sister and the founding president of the Brown Foundation, an educational organization devoted to the case, recalled her parents and others being recruited to press a test case. Advertisement “They were told, ‘Find the nearest white school to your home and take your child or children and a witness, and attempt to enroll in the fall, and then come back and tell us what happened,’ ” she said in a video interview for History NOW. Advertisement The neighborhood the family lived in was integrated. “I played with children that were Spanish-American,” Linda Brown said in a 1985 interview. “I played with children that were white, children that were Indian, and black children in my neighborhood.” Nor were her parents dissatisfied with the black school she was attending. What upset Oliver Brown was the distance Linda had to travel to get to school — first a walk through a rail yard and across a busy road, then a bus ride. Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “When I first started the walk it was very frightening to me,” she said, “and then when wintertime came, it was a very cold walk. I remember that. I remember walking, tears freezing up on my face, because I began to cry.” In an interview with The Miami Herald in 1987, she remembered the fateful day in September 1950 when her father took her to the Sumner School. “It was a bright, sunny day and we walked briskly,” she said, “and I remember getting to these great big steps.” The school told her father no, she could not be enrolled. “I could tell something was wrong, and he came out and took me by the hand and we walked back home,” she said. “We walked even more briskly, and I could feel the tension being transferred from his hand to mine.” In its ruling, the Supreme Court threw out the prevailing “separate but equal” doctrine, which had allowed racial segregation in the schools as long as students of all races were afforded equal facilities. Advertisement “To separate them from others of similar age and qualifications solely because of their race,” the court said, “generates a feeling of inferiority as to their status in the community that may affect their hearts and minds in a way unlikely ever to be undone.” By the time of the ruling, Ms. Brown was in an integrated junior high school. She later became an educational consultant and public speaker. Her family was among several that reopened the original Brown case in 1979 to argue that the job of integration in Topeka remained incomplete. The case resulted in the opening of several magnet schools. Ms. Brown was married several times. The funeral home said her survivors include a daughter, Kimberly Smith, although it did not have a complete list of survivors. As for her role in the landmark case, Ms. Brown came to embrace it, if reluctantly. “Sometimes it’s a hassle,” she told The Herald, “but it’s still an honor.” A picture with an earlier version of this obituary was published in error. The photograph, released by The Associated Press, misidentified the woman in the image. The image showed another student, not Linda Brown. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: Linda Brown, 75, Student at Center Of Landmark Desegregation Case, Dies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:01 P.M. E.D.T.
 MONTPELIER, Vt. —  Legislation that would make it easier to take guns from suicidal people and perpetrators of domestic violence could receive final approval from the Vermont Legislature this week and Gov. Phil Scott supports the proposals, officials said Monday. Democratic Sen. Richard Sears, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said Monday he felt the separate pieces of legislation could reach Scott's desk by the end of the week. House Judiciary Chairman Maxine Grad, also a Democrat, said she expected the legislation would pass, but she didn't know if the bills could reach the governor's desk so quickly. Vermont lawmakers appear to be on the verge of passing the most significant changes to the state's gun laws in years. "It is a big deal," said Grad, who has been working with Sears so the two committees can iron out the differences between the different pieces of legislation. Advertisement "I think the bills that we have been passing really create a balance in terms of maximizing public safety and preventing gun deaths and gun violence while supporting and maintaining Vermont traditions," she said. Advertisement Grad and Sears made the comments a day before the Vermont House of Representatives is expected to give final approval to a separate piece of legislation that would raise the legal age for gun purchases, expand background checks and ban high-capacity magazines and rapid-fire devices known as "bump stocks." The legislation, which was given preliminary approval on Friday, will need to be reconciled with a Senate version passed earlier this month before it could become law. It's unclear how long it would take the House and Senate to reconcile the competing versions. Sears said his first choice would be to appoint a House and Senate conference committee to iron out the differences. Grad said it's up to the Senate to deal with the legislation passed by the House.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The push for gun control legislation came after Vermont police broke up what they said was a plot by a Poultney teenager to shoot up the Fair Haven Union High School. He was arrested the day after the Feb. 14 shooting at a Parkland, Florida, high school that killed 17. In the bill aimed at taking guns from suicidal people, police would be able to seize firearms with a judge's order. The other proposal would allow police to remove guns in cases of possible domestic violence while allowing a quick hearing to justify the seizure. A spokeswoman for Scott said he supports the two pieces of legislation that are expected to receive final approval as "commonsense reforms that keep guns out of the hands of those who should not have them." Grad said that once these pieces of legislation are finished the Legislature is considering a number of other proposals to enhance school safety. Sears said that in a five-year period, 90 percent of Vermont gun deaths were due to suicides and half of the state's homicides are incidents of domestic violence, which in many cases are carried out with firearms. "I think both bills deal with what are Vermont's real gun-related problems," Sears said. ___ This story has been corrected to show House legislation to expand background checks needs to be reconciled with a version that has passed in the Senate. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 10:11 A.M. E.D.T.
 ROME —  The head of Italy's far-right League said on Monday he was ready to talk to the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement about forming a government after the two sides joined forces to elect parliamentary speakers at the weekend. Saturday's vote, which saw a 5-Star politician take charge of the lower chamber while a center-right veteran became head of the upper house Senate, raised speculation the two blocs might move on and try to forge a coalition. Such a prospect looked near impossible a month ago, with the League and its conservative allies deeply opposed to the 5-Star both in terms of policies and personalities. However, after a March 4 national election ended in a hung parliament, Italy's disparate parties are considering various options to overcome the impasse as President Sergio Mattarella prepares to start formal negotiations next week. Advertisement "We need to sit around a table with everyone, and certainly also with 5-Star," League leader Matteo Salvini told Il Messaggero newspaper in an interview. Advertisement In an interview with Telelombardia, Salvini said he would put forward 10 priorities for the next government, including reforming the justice system, curbing immigration and dumping a recent pension reform that had pushed back retirement ages. He made no mention of introducing a flat tax - a campaign pledge that would cost billions of euros to implement and is seen as incompatible with an expensive, flagship 5-Star proposal to instigate a "citizens' wage" to help the poor and jobless. Luigi Di Maio, leader of the 5-Star, laid out his own policy priorities on Sunday, highlighting the need to undo the recent pension changes and reduce youth unemployment. He made no reference to the citizens' wage. BETRAYAL Sending another mollifying signal, Salvini said he was ready to drop his claim to be the next prime minister, even though the League emerged as the largest party within the conservative alliance, which in turn is now the largest bloc in parliament.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It is not 'Salvini or death'," he told Telelombardia. The 5-Star and League have enough seats to govern alone - a prospect that has worried financial markets because of their shared hostility to European Union budget restraints and their big campaign spending pledges. However, Salvini has always pledged not to abandon his rightist allies, including former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, whose Forza Italia party unexpectedly trailed the League in this month's vote, leaving him to play second fiddle. Berlusconi last week accused Salvini of betraying him in the vote for the speakers. Although the two subsequently made peace, Forza Italia veterans are afraid the League might ditch them and join the 5-Star in a coalition with a limited, but popular program that would prepare the way for swift, new elections. A poll last week showed support for Forza Italia crumbling as center-right voters jumped on the League band wagon. Advertisement "Berlusconi is tired, angry and worried," said a senior Forza Italia politician, who declined to be named. In an interview with the daily Corriere della Sera on Monday, the 81-year-old Berlusconi said Salvini needed his allies to govern, adding that a 5-Star/League government would be a "hircocervus" - a half-goat, half-stag mythical creature. "(It was) often mentioned by ancient philosophers as an example of absurdity because it is made up of opposed and irreconcilable characters," he said. (Additional reporting by Giselda Vagnoni; Editing by Mark Heinrich) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 10:17 A.M. E.D.T.
 BRUSSELS/COPENHAGEN —  Denmark is under pressure to rule on whether a new Russian pipeline supplying gas to Germany can be built near its Baltic coast, a decision that puts it in the line of fire from friend and foe alike. Denmark does not want to act alone in resolving one of the biggest foreign policy quandaries that the small European Union nation has faced since the Cold War. But its search for a united EU stance on the proposed pipeline is deadlocked by divisions among member states over whether to do more business with Moscow despite its military incursions in Ukraine and Syria and accusations it used a nerve agent in an attempted assassination on British soil. The Danish government is facing fierce lobbying by Russia, EU allies and the United States over the 9.5 billion euro ($11.7 billion) Nord Stream 2 project championed by President Vladimir Putin and financed by five Western firms. Advertisement "They are under huge pressure from all sides," one senior EU official said. There is no definite timing for a decision, which had been expected this spring but has been delayed while Denmark considers the security implications. But officials say it cannot be postponed indefinitely. Advertisement A Danish veto, under new legislation allowing it to do so on security grounds, would force Russia, which supplies about one third of Europe's gas needs, to find a new route for the pipeline. "This is not about gas, it is one of the most important foreign policy decisions in Denmark since the Cold War," said senior foreign policy researcher Hans Mouritzen at the Danish Institute for International Studies. A delay would weaken Russian gas giant Gazprom's hand in talks with Ukraine for a new gas transit deal after 2019 and create uncertainty for the firm's partners: Germany's Uniper and Wintershall, Anglo-Dutch Shell, Austria's OMV and France's Engie. Access to cheap Russian gas to offset declining Dutch production takes priority for nations in northern Europe, particularly Germany, but eastern European countries fear the pipeline will make the EU a hostage to Russian gas. SECURITY CONCERNS In the Nordic states, where Moscow's military posturing in and around the Baltic Sea has rattled nerves, security is the main concern. The United States has played up these worries in its opposition to Nord Stream 2. Confidential guidance from Washington, seen by Reuters, for U.S. embassy officials in meetings with EU governments argues that the pipeline could strengthen Russia's projection of power in the region. Sweden and Finland have yet to issue permits for the 1,225 km (760 mile) pipeline to run under the Baltic Sea through their exclusive economic zone, which is regulated by U.N. law. Germany did so earlier this year. Advertisement But only in Denmark would the undersea pipe pass through sovereign territorial waters, giving it a greater say. U.S. diplomat Sandra Oudkirk, who visited Copenhagen on her first European tour as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Energy Diplomacy last week, said Washington does not want Nord Stream 2 built and wants to understand "if the Danish law is a means to that end". "TOO BIG FOR DENMARK" Danish officials say they are loath to take sides and are unwilling to rush the decision.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "In some ways this is too big for Denmark," one official said. Under the new legislation, Danish diplomats are drafting an opinion on whether foreign and security policy concerns justify blocking 139 km of the pipeline passing through Danish waters. The opinion may take account of objections by EU allies: that the pipeline would undercut EU support for Kiev by depriving it of gas transit fees, increase dependence on Gazprom or concentrate gas supplies along a single route to Germany. Lawmakers gave the government powers to reject the pipeline's application for a permit last November but had expected support from Brussels, where efforts to reach a consensus have stalled. Denmark is one of 14 EU states to expel Russian diplomats in response to the nerve agent attack in Britain. It was too early to say whether the attack would be included in the foreign and security assessment of Nord Stream 2, Foreign Minister Anders Samuelsen said. If Denmark acts alone to veto the project, that could have unwelcome consequences. "If we are to handle this difficult case alone, Denmark will end up in an unfortunate situation in relation to both Russia and Germany," said Martin Lidegaard, a senior lawmaker with the Danish Social Liberal Party, which is against the project like the rest of the Danish opposition.     DIVERSION With ties between Moscow and Kiev badly strained after Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea and a pro-Russian insurgency in eastern Ukraine, Russia wants to reduce dependence on Ukraine as a gas transit route. Advertisement Any serious delay to the 55 billion cubic metre a year pipeline could imperil that plan as Gazprom seeks to extend two years of record gas sales to Europe. The Nord Stream 2 consortium says it is carrying out surveys for an alternative route north of the Danish island of Bornholm outside Denmark's territorial limits. That would cost time and money. "We have to plan for the possibility," its Financial Officer Paul Corcoran told Reuters. "It will cost more," he admitted. Pipeline contractor Allseas has said a change of route would add less than 5 percent to total costs. But sources close to the matter doubt it will be as easy to reroute the pipeline as the company says. "The Nord Stream 2 company takes it as a real threat," said a senior EU source who has seen an estimate of the cost of changing routes. "I was shocked by how high it was," the source said without disclosing figures. Nord Stream 2 declined to comment on the cost of rerouting, saying it did not wish to "speculate about alternatives and its impacts". For now, Denmark is holding off as long as possible on making the decision. "In this case we're hurrying very slowly," a government source said. (GRAPHIC: EU imports of Russian gas - http://tmsnrt.rs/2nz1ySg) (Additional reporting by Shadia Nasralla; Editing by Giles Elgood) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:10 P.M. E.D.T.
 News that the U.S. and China are open to negotiating to avert a trade war put investors in a buying mood Monday, giving the market its best day in more than two years and erasing about half of its huge losses last week. Technology companies accounted for much of the broad rally, which powered the Dow Jones industrial average to a gain of nearly 670 points. Microsoft was the biggest gainer in the 30-company Dow and the Standard & Poor's 500 index, climbing nearly 8 percent. Banks also notched solid gains, benefiting from a pickup in bond yields. Retailers, consumer goods companies and health care stocks were among the big gainers. The market rebound followed the worst week for U.S. stocks in two years as investors traded last week's jitters for a more optimistic outlook on trade, and an opportunity to buy. Advertisement "Certainly nothing's settled," said Rob Haworth, senior investment strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. "Investors are still viewing this as a glass half-full market and a constructive economy, so it's not surprising to see them buy on value here, buy on dips to try to rebuild their positions." Advertisement The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 70.29 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,658.55. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 669.40 points, or 2.8 percent, to 24,202.60. The Dow lost more than 1,400 points last week and is still down slightly for the year. The Nasdaq added 227.88 points, or 3.3 percent, to 7,220.54. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks picked up 33.63 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,543.72. All told, the Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq posted their best one-day gains since August 2015, making up slightly more than half of the market's losses on Thursday and Friday. Global stock markets fell sharply last week amid fears of a trade war after President Donald Trump announced duties on $60 billion worth of Chinese goods in a dispute over technology policy. On Friday, Beijing released a $3 billion list of U.S. goods targeted for possible retaliation over an earlier U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum imports. That prompted fears the spat might depress trade worldwide and set back the global economic recovery. Those fears eased Monday, after China's government said it is open to negotiating with Washington. That announcement followed a news report indicating that U.S. officials have submitted a list of market-opening requests. A foreign ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, didn't confirm the report by The Wall Street Journal but said at a regular briefing, "Our door for dialogue and discussion is always open." China has yet to say how it might respond to Trump's tariff proposals. That didn't appear to dampen investors' resurgent optimism Monday. Advertisement "This declaration of tariffs on the president's part was his typical opening salvo into a negotiation process," said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading & derivatives at Charles Schwab. "He's done these things in the past, and now it looks like the markets are telling us, 'Yep, that's what's happening.'"  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Meanwhile, a top trade negotiator for South Korea said Monday that the nation has agreed to further open its auto market to the United States as the two countries prepare to amend their six-year-old trade agreement. Technology companies recouped some of the sector's big losses last week. Microsoft rose $6.60, or 7.6 percent, to $93.78. Financial stocks surged as bond yields rose. Higher yields are good for banks, because they drive up interest rates on mortgages and other loans, making them more profitable for lenders. Bank of America added $1.27, or 4.4 percent, to $30.44. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.85 percent from 2.81 percent late Friday. Lowe's climbed 6.6 percent after the home-improvement retailer said Chairman and CEO Robert Niblock is retiring. The stock gained $5.53 to $89.30. Facebook ended barely higher after erasing an early slide triggered by new questions about collecting phone numbers and text messages from Android devices. The Federal Trade Commission confirmed Monday that it is investigating the social media giant's privacy practices, including whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. The stock eked out a gain of 67 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $160.06. Traders also had their eye on the latest corporate deal news Monday. Finish Line vaulted $3.28, or 31.1 percent, to $13.83 after the sporting goods retailer agreed to be bought by JD Sports Fashion PLC. USG Corp. jumped $6.52, or 19.5 percent, to $40.03 after the building products company rejected an offer worth $42 per share from Knauf. Benchmark U.S. crude fell 33 cents to settle at $65.55 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, shed 33 cents to close at $70.12 in London. Advertisement In other energy futures trading, heating oil was little changed at $2.02 a gallon. Wholesale gasoline lost 2 cents to $2.01 a gallon. Natural gas added 3 cents to $2.62 per 1,000 cubic feet. Gold rose $5.10 to $1,355 an ounce. Silver gained 10 cents to $16.68 an ounce. Copper slipped 2 cents to $2.97 a pound. The dollar rose to 105.22 yen from 104.82 yen on Friday. The euro strengthened to $1.2455 from $1.2367. In Europe, Germany's DAX fell 0.8 percent, while France's CAC-40 lost 0.6 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 shed 0.5 percent. In Asia, Tokyo's Nikkei 225 added 0.7 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng rose 0.7 percent. Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 fell 0.5 percent. Seoul's Kospi gained 0.8 percent. India's Sensex rose 0.3 percent. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 9:51 P.M. E.D.T.
 LOS ANGELES —  In Ernest Cline's novel "Ready Player One," the main character drives a DeLorean because of "Back to the Future," and uses a grail diary because of "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade." The films of Steven Spielberg loom large in the story littered with pop culture references. That the legendary filmmaker then ended up being the one to take Cline's futuristic-nostalgic vision to the big screen is a small Spielbergian miracle. "I hadn't read anything that had triggered my own imagination so vividly where I couldn't really shut it off," said Spielberg, who, with "Ready Player One," out Thursday, returns to the wide-eyed grand-scale blockbuster filmmaking that he made his name with. The sci-fi spectacle with a reported $175 million production budget presents a near-future vision of a dystopian society that has all but abandoned the real world for an escapist virtual reality existence. In 2045, most people, including the teenage hero Wade (Tye Sheridan), spend their lives as avatars (Wade's is a cooler version of himself named "Parzival") in the virtual world of the OASIS — a VR game created by an eccentric genius, James Halliday (Mark Rylance), who has promised his wealth to whomever wins and finds the "Easter egg." It's because of Halliday, who, like its author, came of age in the 1980s, that the OASIS is chalk full of 80s nostalgia from Atari to Buckaroo Banzai. It's also why Cline assumed that "Ready Player One" would be impossible to adapt. How would anyone be able to secure all the rights? Advertisement That it ended up being Spielberg doing the asking helped a little, but producer Kristie Macosko Krieger is the one he credits for getting everything from Chucky to the Iron Giant in the film. She spent three years working with Warner Bros. to obtain all the necessary clearances from various studios. Some they didn't use, like the main "Star Wars" icons (although you may spot an X-Wing or R2-D2 in a few frames), and some Spielberg just nixed himself, like the mothership from "Close Encounters of the Third Kind." He didn't want too many of his old movies in his new movie. Advertisement "There comes a point when I would have just had to defer to someone else who likes my movies and not make a movie about my movies," Spielberg said. It meant co-screenwriter Zak Penn would have to lose a few of his Spielberg-inspired jokes and ideas that he'd written into the script before Spielberg signed on to direct, but he didn't mind. "It would have taken you out of the narrative. He's too iconic a director," Penn said. "You'd be sitting there thinking, 'Oh, this is from a Spielberg film.'" But everything was on the table, from the song Cline walked down the aisle to (the Hall & Oats song "You Make My Dreams," which plays during the credits) to a blink-and-you'll-miss-it nod to "Last Action Hero," Penn's first movie which he had wanted Spielberg to direct. Penn, for his part, had said "no" to a proposed reference and was surprised when he saw one in the final cut. Cline had gone behind his back to persuade the folks at ILM to do it. Most of the references amount to set-dressing, packing every frame in the OASIS with eggs that would take even the most eagle-eyed viewer multiple viewings to catch. "My philosophy from the very beginning was, the story is out the front windshield and the pop culture references are out the side mirror," Spielberg said. "And it's your choice what you would like to look at."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The production used cutting-edge technology to simulate the OASIS for the cast and crew with VR headsets that would give everyone a 360-degree view of what the virtual world looked like. And the film itself is a mash-up of past and present technologies, including motion capture, computer animation and even film stock, which Spielberg used to shoot the live-action sequences. "It was just a small little touch because I'm trying to keep, you know film, meaning the chemical, the chemistry of film, relevant and I'm just trying, until they close the last lab and stop making raw stock, to shoot everything I can on film," Spielberg said. "It also gave the real world a more gritty flavor because when you shoot digitally, it's much more like acrylic. And film is more like oil. You get that blend between that world of oil and the texture that an oil painting has with the film and you get the very smooth, almost antiseptic clarity of what the digital world looks like." Advertisement Lena Waithe, who plays the tech-savvy Aech, said, "I love that he did that. The movie really represents where cinema is going and where it all began, which is really beautiful." Cline's novel has already proved prophetic in the digital space. He says companies like Oculus and Google have copies on hand and, he's been told, give them to people who come through the offices. And he thinks the movie, which will play globally, will have a more significant impact. "The best thing that could ever happen to a science fiction writer is to write something that helps inspire the people who make it into a reality," Cline said. "This movie could be a self-fulfilling prophecy." The OASIS, essentially, is not that distant of a reality. It's also something of a cautionary tale about the perils of VR, or as, Spielberg said how, "too much of a good thing is too much." Whether or not audiences will flock to theaters to soak up the nostalgia and the visionary tech is a big question. Waithe said the film is a feel-good escape, and Sheridan stresses that it's a, "great metaphor for the world that we live in in 2018 and the balancing act from your digital profile to your real world self." Early tracking pegs the film, which has received strong reviews, for a $45 million opening. Spielberg might not have lost his touch, but mass audiences might also be too distracted to notice. As for Cline, he still can't believe his luck. "I tell people I'm just prepared for it to all be downhill from here. What could ever top this? I'm so lucky, I got to work with one of my heroes on a story that he helped inspire," Cline said. "I'm just ready for the slow fade after this." ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 7:08 A.M. E.D.T.
 BEIJING/SINGAPORE —  China's crude futures kicked off to a roaring start on Monday as western traders and Chinese majors eagerly traded the world's newest financial oil instrument, which many expect to become a third global price benchmark alongside Brent and WTI crude. Global commodity trader and miner Glencore, and big merchants Trafigura, Freepoint Commodities and Mercuria were among the first to trade the new contract, even as concerns remain that smaller overseas investors may struggle with unfamiliar rules and complex regulation. The launch of the yuan-denominated oil futures <0#ISC:> - China's first commodity derivative open to foreign investors - marked the culmination of a decade-long push by the Shanghai Futures Exchange (ShFE) to give the world's largest energy consumer more power in pricing crude sold to Asia. China is the world's second-largest oil consumer and in 2017 overtook the United States as the biggest importer of crude oil. Its demand is already a key determinant of global oil prices. Advertisement With major overseas traders displaying a strong appetite to punt in China's vast derivatives market, Shanghai's turnover challenged Brent volumes during Asian hours, reflecting the potential for arbitrage trade with oil markets in the United States, Europe and Oman. Advertisement "Whether this will have any real bearing on the other crude benchmarks, I'm not quite sure, but traders love a new toy, so I applaud China for bringing in something that could stoke up some volatility," said Matt Stanley, a fuel broker with Freight Investor Services (FIS) in Dubai. First-day enthusiasm saw 20 million barrels of September oil changing hands in Shanghai by the 3:00 p.m. (0700 GMT) close, but it's not clear the pace will hold in the night session, which runs from 9:00 pm to 2:30 am, or on into coming days. The 15.4 million barrels done in Shanghai's 2-1/2-hour morning session initially topped the Brent May crude contract, before Europe's benchmark came alive around 0500 GMT <0#LCO:>. "We've seen already this morning it appears to be a liquid contract from the off," said David Martin, JPMorgan Chase & Co's Asia Pacific head of global clearing, at an event for the launch in Shanghai. (GRAPHIC: Shanghai crude oil trading kicks off to a roaring start - https://reut.rs/2I0NieE) ARBITRAGE ATTRACTION Analysts said western oil traders were attracted to Shanghai's oil contracts for the potential arbitrage between China's market specifics and global oil fundamentals as reflected by U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) <0#CL:> and international Brent crude futures <0#LCO:>. WTI crude is the main benchmark for U.S. crude grades and a crucial hedging tool for the U.S. oil industry. Brent is priced off of North Sea oil and is a primary value marker for Europe, Africa and Middle East crudes. Both futures contracts are commonly used by financial traders. Advertisement "Prices assessed at the Shanghai exchange will reflect China's crude supply and demand," said Sushant Gupta, research director at energy consultancy Wood Mackenzie. Despite the first-day success, the yuan-denominated trading and a blend of new rules and regulatory burdens could in the long-run hamper sustained take-up on the Shanghai International Energy Exchange (INE), executives at a dozen banks and brokers and experts involved in the launch told Reuters. Still, China offers the potential for a deep, liquid market, buoyed by an explosion of interest from mom-and-pop investors that has supported its vast commodities derivative markets from apples to iron ore in Shanghai, Zhengzhou and Dalian. The yuan-denominated contract will also help Beijing's  efforts to internationalise the nation's currency, said Woodmac's Gupta.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. WESTERN MERCHANTS ACTIVE A surprise to many was that Glencore executed Shanghai's first crude deal. Swiss-based commodity traders Trafigura and Mercuria, U.S.-based Freepoint, and independent refiner Shandong Wonfull were other early participants. "Glencore's first bid reflected the high participation and enthusiasm of foreign traders for Chinese crude oil futures," said Yang Xidong, general manager of Xinhu Futures Co Ltd. "We were active with Glencore today and I've seen Trafigura in it and Freepoint ... We take the view that the contract is viable and adds to the crude oil trading value chain, and is here to stay," said Kevin Tan, executive vice president at Singapore-based brokerage Straits Financial Services. Straits said it brokered the first trade for Glencore and cleared the deal through Xinhu Futures. Chinese trader Unipec told Reuters it was the counterparty for the Glencore deal. The early involvement of big international traders was a morale boost to the fledging market, but state oil majors like PetroChina and Sinopec are expected to provide a significant amount of liquidity in the long-term. Advertisement Unipec, trading arm of Asia's largest refiner Sinopec, has inked a deal with a western oil major to buy Middle East crude priced against the Shanghai futures contract, a senior company official said on Monday. This could be seen as competition to the Dubai Mercantile Exchange's (DME) crude futures <0#DUBSGEFS:> and potentially the assessments published by price reporting agency S&P Global Platts. Speculative retail and institutional investors also propped up the launch-day's liquidity, said Chen Tong, Shanghai-based senior crude analyst at First Futures. "In the short-term, we believe price fluctuations will reflect domestic crude oil supply and demand. In the long run, yuan crude price will mirror the moves of Brent," he said. TALE OF THE TAPE The most-active September <ISCU8> contract opened at 440.4 yuan ($69.78) per barrel versus a reference point of 416 yuan, jumping as high as 447.1 yuan ($70.85) in the first few minutes. The jump came after Brent futures for May delivery opened above $70 per barrel for the first time since January on expectations OPEC-leader Saudi Arabia may extend supply cuts into 2019, as well as over concern that the United States may re-introduce sanctions against Iran. At the end of afternoon session, Shanghai prices were up 3.34 percent at 430.2 yuan, with 40,656 lots traded. Brent and WTI, in contrast, were down by that time, weighed down by concerns over a looming U.S. trade dispute with China. Chinese exchanges count each side of a trade - the buy and the sell - as two lots, meaning the total oil changing hands was 20,328 lots, equal to 20.3 million barrels. Advertisement (Reporting by Josephine Mason and Meng Meng in BEIJING and Henning Gloystein in SINGAPORE; Additional reporting by Ruby Lian in SHANGHAI, Aizhu Chen in BEIJING, and Roslan Khasawneh in SINGAPORE; Editing by Tom Hogue) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JAMES PONIEWOZIKMARCH 26, 2018
 “Roseanne” returns to ABC on Tuesday looking much as you probably remember it. There’s that couch. There’s that quilt. And there are Roseanne (Roseanne Barr) and Dan Conner (John Goodman), lovingly busting each others’ chops. Granted, they’re older and achier, and Dan now sleeps with a mask for sleep apnea. But he’s alive, so he’s got that going for him. The original sitcom’s 1997 finale killed him off, an ending the revival laughs off as the two wake up in bed. “I thought you were dead!” Roseanne says. “You looked happy. I thought maybe you moved on.” Oh, Roseanne! In TV today, no one moves on and nothing truly dies. We’ve resurrected “Will & Grace,” “Twin Peaks” and “American Idol,” with “Murphy Brown” on the way. If all you need from the new “Roseanne” is Ms. Barr’s materfamilias sarcasm, the crack team of comedy actors surrounding her and an update of the show’s working-class gallows humor, it has you covered. But the new “Roseanne” also has the potential to do something a little deeper and more ambitious than your average nostalgia-fest. Advertisement It memory-holes the sitcom’s final year, a bizarre flight of fantasy and pop-culture parody in which the Conners won the lottery and Roseanne was revealed to have become an author. By resetting, the new season does more than hark back to the show’s better years. It re-establishes a continuity in which life has gone on, yet no one’s life has really panned out. [ Hoping to catch up on the original “Roseanne” before watching the new episodes? Here are the key episodes to stream. ] Advertisement Roseanne never became a professional writer. Neither did her daughter Darlene (Sara Gilbert), who’s boomeranged back home with her two kids. Roseanne’s other daughter, Becky (Lecy Goranson), is a widow waiting tables, never having gotten a college degree. (Glenn Quinn, who had played Becky’s husband, Mark, died in 2002.) The Conners aren’t just preserved. They’re stuck. And they’re stuck in a way that underlines the show’s original mission of representing the kind of paycheck-to-paycheck life that other, more upscale sitcoms of the era left behind. In 1988, Roseanne and Dan were in their 30s, stretching to pay the mortgage. Now they’re in their 60s, swapping pills because their insurance doesn’t pay enough to fill all of their prescriptions. Dan lets Roseanne have all the anti-depressants: “If you’re not happy, I have no chance of being happy,” he says. Close your eyes, and you could be listening to vintage “Roseanne.” This is good and bad. The series’s voice is intact, but the zinger-based dialogue and rhythms can feel dated. 
                Before the reboot arrives, revisit some of the family sitcom’s smartest, funniest and most poignant episodes.             But the beauty of the show’s language is how many feelings those zingers can communicate. The Conners use insults to express love and test old wounds. A conversation can shade from friendly chain-pulling to actual fighting and then back again. In the first episode, the big fight is America’s big fight. Roseanne supported Donald J. Trump in 2016, as Ms. Barr vociferously did. This has alienated her from her sister, Jackie (Laurie Metcalf), who greets her, “What’s up, deplorable?” Advertisement Roseanne’s Trumpism has alienated her from some fans too, who say it doesn’t sound like the feminist who stood up to her bosses and shot down sexist pigs. “All human beings connect sex and love,” she once told Darlene. “Except for men.” Personally, I wouldn’t have predicted it. But I buy it. First, the election left a lot of people stunned at the choices of (actual, nonfictional) friends they thought they knew. Second, Roseanne has always been a version of Ms. Barr, reimagined in different circumstances. And finally, well, people are complicated — “weird” is the Conners’ preferred self-description — and a strength of the show has always been its refusal to put people in neat boxes. In any case, the story line is confined to one episode of the three screened for critics. The original series rarely talked politics openly; it just lived the country’s realities in all the little ways that matter. As Ms. Barr told The Los Angeles Times in 1992: “We do it. We don’t talk it.” Get the most out of your screen time with movie and TV recommendations, news and commentary from New York Times experts. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The other plots are more about personal struggles — work and school, bills and pills. The Conners’ son D.J. (Michael Fishman) is back from the Army, raising his young daughter while his wife serves in Syria. (The youngest Conner son, Jerry, is off somewhere working on a fishing boat.) Becky, meanwhile, is applying to be a surrogate mother for a well-to-do woman — played by Sarah Chalke, who took over for Ms. Goranson as Becky in the show’s original run. It’s another meta joke, yes, but with a kick: Becky is trying to better her prospects by having a baby for another, more fortunate version of herself. In one of the stronger new stories, Darlene’s son, Mark (Ames McNamara), a spirited nine-year-old who likes to wear skirts, discovers that Lanford, Ill., is not as tolerant of daring fashion choices as his old home in Chicago. It’s a nuanced episode, pitting his grandparents’ worry for him against the Conners’ constitutional mandate to be defiantly different. It also echoes the third-season episode “Trick or Treat,” in which Dan fretted that D.J. would get bullied for dressing as a witch for Halloween, while Roseanne went to the bar in a convincing beard and passed herself off as one of the guys. (In the end, Dan broke up a bar fight she was about to get into: “He’s my husband!”) There’s a lot more here that recalls earlier “Roseanne,” which I mean as a compliment, but also points up a limitation of today’s many revivals. In the best-case scenario, they can approximate the original. (Ms. Metcalf and Mr. Goodman fall back into their characters seamlessly.) But they’re too wed to expectations to improve on it. This “Roseanne” at least has reasons to exist beyond, “Why not?” One of them is the same reason it was refreshing 30 years ago: There are scant few sitcoms now about working-class families, like “The Middle,” about to end its run on ABC, and “One Day at a Time,” just renewed at Netflix. Advertisement “Roseanne” is a revival that’s willing to grapple with the time that’s passed rather than deny it. It’s feisty and funny and a little sad. And like that old couch you can’t throw out, it may just have a good year or two left in it. A version of this review appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Not-So-Deplorable Reboot.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By TYLER KEPNERMARCH 26, 2018
 Joe Maddon has a problem. For all of his influence as manager of the Chicago Cubs, he is not allowed to stamp a Cubs logo on the biceps of Michelangelo’s David. “I think it’d be a great preseason campaign, on billboards across the city: putting the art back in the game,” Maddon said recently, near the pink flamingos he bought for the Cubs’ spring training complex in Mesa, Ariz. (He named them Ernie and Ron, after the Hall of Famers Ernie Banks and Ron Santo.) “But I can’t utilize Cub logos,” Maddon continued. “If I could utilize Cub logos, oh my God, this would be through the roof. You know, if you could put a Cubs tattoo on David, or a hat. Mona Lisa wearing a Cubs jersey, for example.” Maddon was rolling, explaining his theme for 2018. He wants the Cubs to recognize the artistry in their play, so classic pieces with a baseball twist now surround the team’s work space. Salvador Dalí wears a catcher’s mask, while David — in a jockstrap — stands on the mound as if pitching from the stretch. Advertisement The artwork is covered in scribbled slogans — “Chicks dig the leather,” meaning defense; “Dominate 1-1,” meaning the all-important 1-1 pitch — that Maddon hopes will seep into players’ consciousness. Advertisement “It’s more of a visual, just being able to see his thoughts down on — well, it’s a painting, so not on paper but on canvas,” said left fielder Kyle Schwarber, who made his own visual improvements in the off-season, shedding about 20 pounds. “It’s hard to pick everything out, but if you’re able to walk by and take a few things each day and know that’s what we want to be, it’s big.” —— Read our American League preview here. —— The gallery will move with the Cubs to Wrigley Field, where the National League pennant has been decided three years in a row. Twice the visitors have claimed it, with the Cubs taking the middle crown, in 2016, and then following up with a long-awaited World Series victory. Last season was more of a struggle — the Cubs had a losing record at the All-Star break and fell by 11 wins over all, to 92-70. Yet they took over first place for good in late July, outscored their opponents by 127 runs in the second half, and outlasted Washington in their division series. Now they look even better, with three starters who were not with the team a year ago: Yu Darvish and Tyler Chatwood, who arrived as free agents, and Jose Quintana, who thrived after a midseason trade from the White Sox. Brandon Morrow has replaced Wade Davis as the closer. If Maddon’s buzzword is art, Theo Epstein’s is stuff. “While the league has been getting more and more stuff — more velo, more ridiculous breaking stuff — we’ve been regressing toward more average stuff,” said Epstein, the Cubs’ president of baseball operations. “We have really talented pitchers, but just in terms of raw stuff, we haven’t quite kept up with the competition. That’s not the be-all, end-all — there’s a big difference between stuff and pitching — but you don’t want to get too big a gap there. If you look at all of them, Darvish, Chatwood and Morrow all have excellent stuff, among other things they bring, so I think that’ll help us. “We’ve got the lowest E.R.A. in baseball over the last three years, but we haven’t done it with dominant, overwhelming stuff. Especially the last couple of years, it’s regressed a little bit. I think it’ll just be nice to have a little more stuff, a little bit more margin for error, and then try to pitch and execute game plans, disrupt timing, hit our spots and everything else.” The Cubs hired Jim Hickey, formerly of Tampa Bay, to be their pitching coach, and Chili Davis, formerly of Boston, to be their hitting coach. If Hickey can harness the pitchers’ raw stuff, and Davis can coax more contact from an offense that finished second to Colorado in runs scored in the N.L. last year, the Cubs should return to the World Series. Even so, their Central division rivals will not make it easy. The St. Louis Cardinals seem poised to return to the playoffs after an excruciating absence of two whole years. Advertisement “Not being able to go to the postseason the last two years, you see the hunger that everyone has,” said pitcher Alex Reyes, whose return from Tommy John surgery, perhaps by May, will boost the staff. “That’s what the organization expects from us.” The Cardinals tried to persuade Giancarlo Stanton to accept a trade to them. When he passed, they dealt for a different Miami outfielder: Marcell Ozuna, who has started in the last two All-Star Games. He instantly gives St. Louis the middle-of-the-order threat it was missing. The Cardinals and the Milwaukee Brewers were the only teams in the majors last season to have a winning record but fail to qualify for the playoffs. The Brewers added outfielders Lorenzo Cain and Christian Yelich, who must help on offense and defense because the rotation still looks shaky beyond Chase Anderson and Zach Davies. “We talk about the run prevention unit, so part of that is pitching, and part of it is defense,” General Manager David Stearns said. “We think our defense got better with our acquisitions, and we think frankly our pitching got better with some of our acquisitions.” The Pittsburgh Pirates are not exactly starting over, but they traded their best hitter (Andrew McCutchen) and best starter (Gerrit Cole), so it’s hard to expect a winning season. The Cincinnati Reds made no changes to a rotation that contributed to the N.L.’s worst earned run average (5.17) last year, so a fourth consecutive 90-loss season seems likely. The Los Angeles Dodgers have a better streak to preserve: They have won the N.L. West five seasons in a row, and should do so again. It’s easy to forget just how close they came to beating the Astros in the World Series. Consider these unlikely events: Kenley Jansen blowing a save in Game 2, Clayton Kershaw squandering a four-run lead in Game 5 and Darvish getting shelled in both of his starts. 
            Tyler Kepner makes his picks for the season. Teams are listed in predicted order of finish.         American League East: Yankees, Orioles (wild card), Red Sox, Blue Jays, Rays A.L. Central: Indians, Twins (wild card), Royals, White Sox, Tigers A.L. West: Astros, Angels, Athletics, Mariners, Rangers National League East: Nationals, Phillies, Mets, Braves, Marlins N.L. Central: Cubs, Cardinals (wild card), Brewers, Pirates, Reds N.L. West: Dodgers, Diamondbacks (wild card), Rockies, Padres, Giants World Series: Astros over Cubs A.L. M.V.P.: Carlos Correa, Astros A.L. Cy Young: Chris Sale, Red Sox A.L. Rookie of the Year: Shohei Ohtani, Angels N.L. M.V.P.: Paul Goldschmidt, Diamondbacks N.L. Cy Young: Stephen Strasburg, Nationals N.L. Rookie of the Year: Ronald Acuna, Braves “Sometimes you just have to tip your cap to the opposition,” General Manager Farhan Zaidi said. “That’s probably the greatest, maybe only, solace in the whole World Series experience: We lost to a very deserving team.” The Dodgers do not have as much rotation depth as they did last season, and losing Justin Turner to a broken wrist late in spring training will clearly hurt. But with their ingenuity and money — and the contributions, at some point, of the rookie right-hander Walker Buehler — the Dodgers should figure it out. The Arizona Diamondbacks and the Colorado Rockies both earned wild cards last season, feasting on the lowly San Diego Padres and San Francisco Giants, who both improved over the winter. Despite a few departures, one of the two — probably Arizona — should claim a wild card again. Advertisement The Diamondbacks lost the majors’ leader in slugging percentage, J.D. Martinez, and it’s hard to expect their rotation to be as sturdy as it was last season, when all five starters made at least 25 starts. But the new outfielders Steven Souza Jr. and Jarrod Dyson should somewhat make up for losing Martinez, as catcher Alex Avila should for the loss of Chris Iannetta, who joined the Rockies. With Charlie Blackmon, the majors’ leader in total bases, facing free agency after the season, Colorado should feel an urgency to return to the playoffs. The Rockies’ wild-card loss to Arizona gave them an intoxicating whiff of the postseason.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “The one word I would use to describe that feeling was ‘addicting,’ ” starter Chad Bettis said. “Once you get a taste of it, you want more of it, and that’s what we’re pushing for. We expect to be in the playoffs. We’re built really strongly and we have a lot of depth.” The Rockies spent lavishly to maintain a strong bullpen, giving a combined $106 million to Wade Davis, Bryan Shaw and Jake McGee for the next three years. Those veterans must maintain their durability to again ease the burden on a young rotation, no sure thing in an unrelenting atmosphere. The Padres — yes, the Padres — made the largest commitment to a single free agent in the off-season, signing first baseman Eric Hosmer for eight years and $144 million. He should start seeing some of the Padres’ “hot talent lava,” as the agent Scott Boras put it, make an impact in the majors, though San Diego does not have the pitching to contend. The Giants, meanwhile, would be the easy pick to win the World Series, if only this were 2012. They won’t lose 98 games for a second straight season, but they added two more over-30 boldface names — McCutchen and Evan Longoria — to a roster that already has too many. In the East division, the Washington Nationals should run away with their fifth title in seven seasons. Dave Martinez signed on as their fourth manager in that span, but the Nationals’ problem in escaping the first round of the postseason just might be their players — or plain old bad luck. Still, while Washington’s well-rounded roster looks all but flawless, we can’t expect this team to break through to the N.L.C.S. until we finally see it. To emphasize the idea of getting over the hump, Martinez — a former bench coach for Maddon who shares his old boss’s creativity — imported three camels from a nearby petting zoo to inspire the team one morning in spring training. “My message to them is, ‘Hey, when we get there, it’s just playing one more game,’ ” Martinez said. “One more game. It’ll be Game 163, 164, 165, that’s it. We’re good enough to finish this out. They know that.” Advertisement The Philadelphia Phillies lost 96 games last season, but they liked what they saw in late summer from young players like Rhys Hoskins, Scott Kingery, J.P. Crawford, Nick Williams and Jorge Alfaro. A team that had just one player signed to a long-term contract then added four through free agency: starter Jake Arrieta, first baseman Carlos Santana and relievers Tommy Hunter and Pat Neshek. The message was clear. “If the young players really do take a step forward this year,” General Manager Matt Klentak said, “we’ve invested in areas that support them. The Phillies probably lack the rotation depth to finish much higher than .500, and who knows what kind of rotation the Mets will have. As usual, the talent is there but the health history is concerning. The new manager, Mickey Callaway, will modernize the team’s approach to pitching and injury prevention, which makes sense. But counting on a roster with such a dubious health history — and questionable defensive skills — does not. The Atlanta Braves enter the fourth year of their rebuild, and the first under a new general manager, Alex Anthopoulos, who will use this season to evaluate the team’s young players. Soon, the Braves must start adding talent to maximize the prime of their star first baseman, Freddie Freeman. But that time is not now. One thing is certain this season: The longest N.L. playoff drought will continue. The Miami Marlins, who haven’t made it since 2003, actually outscored the Dodgers last season. But with a threadbare pitching staff and farm system, the Marlins’ new ownership revived the franchise tradition of slashing payroll and trading for prospects. The chairman, Derek Jeter, never experienced a losing record in his 20 seasons starring for the Yankees. He knows how things look in Miami, but concedes nothing. “People just automatically assume that we’re not going to win,” Jeter said. “I don’t like the word ‘rebuild’ because there’s a negative connotation to that. We’re building something. You never put in the mind of your players or your teammates that it’s O.K. to lose. It’s not O.K. to lose. You go compete.” Whatever their record, Jeter insisted, the Marlins will reflect his values. “We’re going to play the game the right way, we’re going to be professionals, we’re going to play hard,” he said. “If you’re a fan of the Marlins, you will be proud of the players that we put on the field.” A version of this article appears in print on March 26, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Cubs, Embracing Inner Artist, Hope to Create a Masterpiece.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 4:39 P.M. E.D.T.
 ATLANTA —  Oft-injured New York Yankees first baseman Greg Bird had surgery on his ailing right ankle and could be sidelined for nearly two months. The Yankees said Tuesday's operation went as planned. "Obviously, we were hoping it was going to be a shorter-term thing," first-year manager Aaron Boone said Monday when the intended operation was announced. "But we feel like we got some answers. We feel like we know what the surgery's going to accomplish." Bird had surgery will remove a small broken spur on the outside of the right ankle. Dr. Martin O'Malley operated at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York. The slugger is expected to be out for six-to-eight weeks. "Hopefully this is something he will now put behind him for good," Boone said. "We feel pretty good that the surgery is fairly minor and they're going to go in and correct the problem. Then he should be good to go." Advertisement Tyler Austin, who had been slated to start the season at Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, will likely get the bulk of the playing time at first base in Bird's absence. There also will be games when Neil Walker shifts over from second base to first. Advertisement Austin is looking forward to the opportunity. The 26-year-old hit consecutive home runs with Aaron Judge in their first major league plate appearances two years ago but has played a total of 51 games with the Yankees over the last two seasons, hitting .236 with seven homers and 20 RBIs. "I'm just excited to be part of this team," Austin said "You never want to see a guy go down. But I believe we have the pieces in here to make up for what is lost when he's out. I think that between Neil and I, we can make some special things happen." The 25-year-old Bird has been promising yet perplexing since his big league debut in 2015, when he came up from the minors and had 11 homers and 31 RBIs in 46 games. He missed 2016 after surgery to repair a torn labrum in his right shoulder. Last year, Bird hit .451 with eight homers in spring training but fouled a ball off his right ankle on March 30, started the season 6 for 60 and went on the disabled list May 2. When the foot did not improve, O'Malley operated July 18 to remove a bone in the ankle. Bird returned Aug. 26 and hit .253 with eight homers and 25 RBIs in 29 games, then batted .241 three homers and six RBIs in 13 playoff games. Most notably, he homered off Andrew Miller to account for the lone run in a 1-0 victory over Cleveland in Game 3 of the AL Division Series. Bird struggled this spring training, hitting just .154 in 52 at-bats with one homer, one double and four RBIs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In retrospect, Boone said, the player may have been favoring the ankle, though the team did not realize there was a problem until the closing days of spring training. "I think it's fair that it was a contributor to him not really clicking yet," the manager said. Boone said he's confident Austin can fill the void at first. He hit .227 with four homers in spring training. Advertisement "We feel like he's a really good player," Boone said. "Tyler Austin is ready for this opportunity. He was just blocked by Greg Bird." The Yankees have some flexibility on the right side of the infield with Walker able to play both first and second base. With second baseman Tyler Wade also in the mix, Boone feels like he has three players for two positions. Austin is a right-handed hitter, Wade a lefty and Walker a switch-hitter. "We'll play the match-up game pretty much each and every day." Boone said. "You'll see different combinations with Walker at first and Wade at second, Austin at first and Walker at second. We feel good about it. We're certainly going to miss Greg, but we feel good about what we can do from a matchup standpoint with those guys." While the loss of Bird casts a bit of a pall over the opener, Boone said he's trying to think long term. "In the grand scheme of things," the manager said, "hopefully we do look back and it's a short-term bump in the road and we can get him back for good." ___ Follow Paul Newberry on Twitter at www.twitter.com/pnewberry1963 . His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/paul%20newberry ___ More AP baseball coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 6:08 A.M. E.D.T.
 BEIJING —  Guo Shuqing, head of China's new regulator for the banking and insurance sectors, has been appointed the Communist Party chief and deputy governor of the People's Bank of China (PBOC), official publication Financial News reported on Monday. As PBOC party chief, Guo will exert the widest influence at one of the world's most powerful central banks, which unlike its peers in some countries is not fully independent. Its decision-making is broadly subject to the political influence of the Communist Party and the government. Sources had told Reuters on Sunday that an announcement on Guo's appointments was imminent. Having the same person serve as both the PBOC's party chief and a deputy governor is unusual in China and has surprised economists and financial markets. As PBOC's party chief, Guo outranks new PBOC Governor Yi Gang politically, but as a vice governor he is one step below him. Advertisement For 15 years, Zhou Xiaochuan, Yi's mentor, had served as both PBOC's governor and party chief. Guo himself is both chairman and party head of the newly established China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission (CBIRC). Advertisement Both men will support Liu He, China's new vice premier and a key economic adviser and trusted ally to President Xi Jinping, to push the central government's development and reform agenda. "Liu He is actually the one who outlined the big theme in terms of economic and financial policies. Both Guo and Yi will be implementing this economic policy outline," said Betty Wang, senior China economist at ANZ in Hong Kong. Guo's unique role will allow him to coordinate policymaking and implementation between PBOC and CBIRC, and help advance Beijing's financial reforms, sources said. As PBOC's party boss, he will ensure the central bank is aligned with the Communist Party's agenda, which puts the party at the core of China's economic leadership, sources said. Guo is a full member of the Communist Party's Central Committee, the largest of the party's elite ruling bodies, while Yi is an alternative member.  However, Yi is still expected to be in charge of the PBOC's day-to-day operations, sources said. Yi, a U.S.-educated economist, 21-year central bank veteran and previously Zhou's right-hand man, will be able to ensure the consistency of monetary policy, sources said. Simultaneously holding the positions of party boss and deputy ministerial head is not without precedent in China. Zhang Yesui is currently party chief of the foreign affairs ministry and a vice foreign minister at the same time. Advertisement But the economy and the party have become more intertwined since a party congress in October when President Xi Jinping consolidated his grip on power. Party control is deemed necessary to help push reforms through a massive bureaucracy and into action on the ground. SUPER-REGULATOR The top-level arrangement of Guo and Yi's positions is expected to improve inter-agency coordination in China's monetary and financial policymaking process, and close regulatory loopholes as authorities work to contain systemic financial risks, sources said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. China's regulators are trying to rein in risks from an increasingly complex financial system and a rapid build-up in debt without jolting markets or hurting economic growth. The new leadership team is also facing pressure to follow through on China's long-standing pledge to further open its financial sector to foreign investors as the U.S. steps up pressure on China for what it calls unfair trade practices.    President Xi has made it clear that financial security is key to China's national security, and control of financial risks is a top government priority. Economists and regulators say the previous regulatory regime was too fragmented to curb such risks, especially shadow banking and excessive financial leverage. Speculation that Beijing was considering creating a super financial regulator had been rife since the Chinese stock market crash of 2015, blamed in part on poor inter-agency coordination. Last year, China created the Financial Stability and Development Committee (FSDC) under the State Council, giving it a higher political ranking than the various government ministries already involved in financial oversight. The committee has its office installed at the central bank and has the authority to supervise and question financial regulators and local governments. Advertisement      REGULATORY WINDSTORM Guo has developed a reputation for being willing to take tough and aggressive action, and his appointment at the central bank comes after China earlier this month revealed its biggest government structural overhaul in years. Guo only returned to Beijing last year to helm the banking watchdog, which has since merged with the insurance regulator. As head of China's previous banking regulator he started what was dubbed a "regulatory windstorm", implementing a flurry of new measures to tackle the sector's most complex problems. During his 17 months as chief stock market regulator from 2011 to 2013, Guo drew up 80 new policies, fought widespread insider trading, advocated reform of the initial public offering system, promoted the delisting of loss-making firms, and boosted the participation of foreign investors. Guo was once a PBOC deputy governor in the early 2000s, overlapping with Zhou. Guo also previously served as China's top foreign exchange regulator. (Reporting By Shu Zhang and Ryan Woo; Additional reporting by Elias Glenn and Ben Blanchard; Editing by Kim Coghill) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By PATRICK McGEEHANMARCH 26, 2018
 One of the five passengers on the doorless helicopter hovering high above Manhattan had just leaned back toward the pilot to snap a photograph of his feet dangling in midair — a coveted shot known on social media as a “shoe selfie” — when the trouble started. The pilot heard and saw warnings that the single engine of the AS350 Eurocopter was losing power. He considered trying to land in Central Park but decided that there were “too many people,” he told federal investigators, according to a report issued on Monday. So, after yelling at the passengers to return to their seats, he circled around and glided toward the East River, making a mayday call as he cleared the buildings at the island’s edge. The pilot, Richard Vance, said he deployed the floats on the helicopter’s skids in preparation for impact, then reached down for the emergency fuel shut-off lever. But he found that it had already been tripped, and beneath it he spotted a possible culprit, the nylon tether that had allowed his front-seat passenger to move around the cabin and take pictures unimpeded by doors or windows — or a seatbelt. Mr. Vance said that he moved the lever back to the on position and tried to restart the engine. Advertisement He got a positive response from the controls, he told the investigators. But at 300 feet above the surface, he decided it was too late to avoid hitting the water, so he cut the fuel off again, to prevent a fire. Advertisement As soon as the helicopter splashed down, Mr. Vance reached back and tried to unscrew a carabiner that attached the front-seat passenger to the aircraft, the report said. But before he could free the passenger, the helicopter capsized and he had to unbuckle his seatbelt and pull himself out of the cabin. He climbed onto the belly of the Eurocopter and called for help. But by the time rescue divers arrived, it was too late to save any of the passengers. All five had been wearing a harness system that was designed to allow them to dangle out of the helicopter, whose doors had been removed for better photo opportunities. All five drowned, according to the medical examiner’s office.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Only Mr. Vance, 33, survived. He was not wearing a harness. Each harness had a small pouch in front that contained a cutting tool to slice through the harness in an emergency, the report said. Mr. Vance told the investigators that he attached each of the passengers to their tethers before takeoff and pointed out to them where the cutters were. He said he reminded them about how to use them. The report, from the National Transportation Safety Board, did not reach any conclusions about the cause of the March 11 crash. The investigation may take months to complete. But the report’s summary of an interview with Mr. Vance indicates that he thought the passenger’s movement while taking photographs may explain what happened. Several days after the crash, the Federal Aviation Administration ordered a ban on “doors-off” helicopter flights that use harnesses that cannot quickly be detached. “Doors-off” flights have become popular in tourist destinations like Hawaii, but the association of Hawaiian helicopter operators said its members do not use harnesses. The F.A.A. did not say how many companies would be affected by the ban it ordered. Last week, the safety board called on the F.A.A. to “take definitive action” by banning commercial flights that use harnesses that do not allow for easy release during emergencies. The passengers had booked their flight through FlyNYON, a New Jersey company that offered thrill-seekers the chance to unbuckle their seatbelts and dangle their feet out the open door to snap “shoe selfies” with their cameras or smartphones. The helicopter was owned and operated by Mr. Vance’s employer, Liberty Helicopters, which is based at a heliport in Kearny, N.J., but has a big presence at the Downtown Manhattan Heliport near Wall Street. Last weekend, FlyNYON was still in business, shuttling customers from its office in Kearny to the nearby heliport for rides in a helicopter that kept its doors on. The company’s website indicates that it is selling doors-off flights starting again on March 31, at prices that begin at $219 per seat. Those offers allude to “dangling your feet for a #shoeselfie,” and promise that “we take your experience further than anyone else in the industry.” Advertisement Neither FlyNYON nor Liberty responded on Monday to requests for comment. Mr. Vance also could not be reached. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Harness May Have Tripped Switch in ‘Doors-Off’ Helicopter Crash.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 9:30 A.M. E.D.T.
 KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. —  Sloane Stephens' loudest fan kept shouting advice and encouragement from the upper deck Monday, perhaps providing the nudge she needed to shake a post-U.S. Open slump. Stephens earned her biggest victory since winning last year's Open, beating No. 3-ranked Garbine Muguruza 6-3, 6-4 Monday to reach the quarterfinals at the Miami Open. "Keep it in the court, girl — that's all you've got to do!" the spectator hollered, and Stephens did. During a post-match on-court interview, Stephens thanked the fan, who has attended her past two matches. "I have no idea who that is," she said later. "Day before yesterday was the first time I'd ever seen him. But it's entertaining. Obviously he knows tennis — he was shouting all the right things." Advertisement The fan might have picked a good time to jump on the Stephens bandwagon. She'll next face Angelique Kerber with a shot at reaching the Miami Open semifinals for the first time. Advertisement Also advancing was three-time champion Venus Williams, who came from behind for the second day in a row and beat defending champion Johanna Konta 5-7, 6-1, 6-2. The victory was Williams' 64th on Key Biscayne. "I'm not bad at playing tennis," the 37-year-old Williams said, "so why not keep going?" Victoria Azarenka, another three-time champion, swept 2012 champ Agnieszka Radwanska 6-2, 6-2. Stephens claimed her first major title in New York in September and is ranked 12th, but she arrived at Key Biscayne with a record of only 3-4 this year. "After winning a Grand Slam, it's not easy to come back right out and keep playing," Stephens said. "I was so excited after winning the U.S. Open, I was living my life to the fullest. Now I'm back to my day job. It's a little bit difficult. It takes a little bit of confidence and a lot of hard work." On the men's side, qualifier Thanasi Kokkinakis lost in the follow-up to his upset of Roger Federer in the second round. Fernando Verdasco rallied from two mini-breaks down in the decisive tiebreaker and beat Kokkinakis 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 (4). Kerber advanced by rallying past qualifier Yafan Wang 6-7 (1), 7-6 (5), 6-3. Stephens won with typically dogged defense, and by attacking Muguruza's weak second serve. The Spaniard has been battling a slump herself, falling to 8-6 in 2018.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I missed too many shots, a couple of mistakes I shouldn't have done in important moments," said Muguruza, the 2017 Wimbledon champion. "My serve in general could be better. It was not a big difference, but in the end a few details went to her side." Stephens started the year by losing her opening match in consecutive tournaments, including the Australian Open. She then spent more than a month away from the tour, but said she was no longer celebrating her U.S. Open title. Advertisement "After Australia I really took time to get myself together," she said. "If you put in the work, you're able to get results." More than one fan is applauding her success at the Miami Open, the hometown tournament for Stephens, a South Florida native. Next year the event will move 18 miles north to the Miami Dolphins stadium. Stephens, who first came to Key Biscayne for juniors matches more than a decade ago, said she is sad about the switch — and not just because of tennis memories. "I'll miss Sir Pizza," she said. "I've been going there since I was 12. The same people still work there, and it's such a gem. I'm definitely going to miss that place." Other winners included American Danielle Collins defeating Monica Puig of Puerto Rico 3-6, 6-4, 6-2 and Jelena Ostapenko topping Petra Kvitova 7-6 (4), 6-3. Denis Shapovalov edged Sam Querrey 6-4, 3-6, 7-5 and Nick Kyrgios defeated Fabio Fognini 6-3, 6-3. Alexander Zverev stopped David Ferrer 2-6, 6-2, 6-4 and Frances Tiafoe led Tomas Berdych 6-7 (2), 6-2, 5-4 before the match was suspended at 2:13 a.m. because of rain. The winner will play Kevin Anderson later on Tuesday. ___ More AP tennis coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/apf-Tennis ___ Follow Steven Wine on Twitter: http://twitter.com/Steve_Wine. His work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/steven-wine We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:10 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  The main U.S. stock indices advanced more than 2 percent on Monday, helping recoup some of last week's losses, amid signs that the United States and China were willing to negotiate on tariffs eased concerns about a trade war between the two countries. President Donald Trump's move to impose tariffs on Chinese imports, helped send the main indexes into their steepest weekly declines in about two years last week. The United States asked China in a letter last week to slash tariffs on U.S. autos, buy more U.S.-made semiconductors and give U.S. firms greater access to the Chinese financial sector, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday. Premier Li Keqiang said Monday China would treat foreign and domestic firms equally, not force foreign firms to transfer technology and would strengthen intellectual property rights, repeating promises that have failed to placate Washington. Advertisement COMMENTS WILLIE DELWICHE, INVESTMENT STRATEGIST AT BAIRD IN MILWAUKEE “I think it’s just a reflex reaction to last week’s weakness. We stopped right around the 200-day moving average, and so I think that’s a good chance for people to bet on a rebound and so far that’s working for them.” Advertisement “You could make arguments that there’s other external drivers, but I don’t buy that. We stopped right at the 200-day, right near the February lows, we’re pretty oversold and so I think we came in ripe for a bounce and the question is how far it goes and what it looks like.” DENNIS DICK, HEAD OF MARKETS STRUCTURE, PROPRIETARY TRADER,  BRIGHT TRADING LLC IN LAS VEGAS "We saw a really good rally because of potential talks with China. Facebook hit us hard and then we're slowly crawling back up. There's a lot of uncertainty out there right now." "People are taking advantage of the huge dip last week. Now you have the same people saying maybe we sold too low." "I don't think you're out of the woods yet. There's political uncertainty. There's uncertainty about what's happening in Facebook.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We're due for some sideways action if not a correction," he said. "In the short term most of these rallies will be met with a wave of sellers. You could get buyers exhaustion here. The people buying now are ones that think the bottom is here. I don't think it is. There's too much uncertainty. You can see the market is a little queasy. I'm skeptical of this rally." OLIVER PURSCHE, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, BRUDERMAN ASSET MANAGEMENT, NEW YORK “It's clearly the easing of trade tensions. The comments by (Treasury Secretary) Steve Mnuchin late yesterday gave room for negotiation with China. We've sent them a wish list, a to-do list. It's just like Trump described in the book The Art of the Deal. You propose something horrific, and then when you pull back, what you want is not as painful as feared. The problem is the other side isn't dumb. Eventually, they're going to figure that out.” “From an investor's perspective, it's still fundamentally the same landscape. You're looking at an administration that is somewhat protectionist, you're looking at rising interest rates. You've had some major banks downgrade their earnings growth forecasts for Q1. The big question is, 'What do earnings do in the first quarter?' We're a few weeks away from finding out. The concern I have is that this uncertainty and marked volatility hasn't visibly translated to consumer behavior yet, but it can.” KEITH PARKER, US EQUITY STRATEGIST, UBS, NEW YORK: "Some of the de-risking we saw last week on the back of China trade worries was pretty considerable... A lot was priced in, in terms of trade worries, and I think comments (about Trump not backing down) from (Treasury Secretary Steve) Mnuchin over the weekend helped to alleviate some fears of a potential escalation of trade tensions." Advertisement "Our view is that escalation of trade tensions was essentially priced in... We're back to pricing in some concern but not considerably more downside." MARKET REACTION STOCKS: The Dow was up 503 points, or 2.15 percent after falling more than 1,000 points last Thursday and Friday; The S&P 500 was 1.94 percent higher and the Nasdaq was up 2.24 percent. TREASURIES: The yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.8532 percent. VIX: The Cboe volatility index fell to 21.60 Dollar: The U.S. dollar index was off 0.50 percent (Compiled by Alden Bentley) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:37 P.M. E.D.T.
 SINGAPORE/SAN FRANCISCO —  Uber Technologies Inc has agreed to sell its Southeast Asian business to bigger regional rival Grab, the ride-hailing firms said on Monday, marking the U.S. company's second retreat from an Asian market. The industry's first big consolidation in Southeast Asia, home to about 640 million people, puts pressure on Indonesia's Go-Jek, which is backed by Alphabet Inc's Google and China's Tencent Holdings Ltd. A shake-up in Asia's fiercely competitive ride-hailing industry became likely earlier this year when Japan-based SoftBank Group Corp's Vision Fund made a multi-billion dollar investment in Uber. SoftBank owns stakes in most major global ride services companies, and executives have indicated they favored consolidation. SoftBank already had investments in Grab and India's Ola, and Vision Fund Chief Executive Rajeev Misra had urged Uber to focus less on Asia and more on profitable markets such as Latin America, a person familiar with the matter said. Advertisement Grab President Ming Maa told Reuters that SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son was "highly supportive" of the deal, which he called "a very independent decision by both" Grab and Uber. Advertisement Uber will take a 27.5 percent stake in Singapore-based Grab and Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi will join Grab's board. Grab was last valued at $6 billion after a financing round in July. "It will help us double down on our plans for growth as we invest heavily in our products and technology," Khosrowshahi said in a statement. The Competition Commission of Singapore (CCS) said it has the mandate to review whether any mergers will result in a "substantial lessening of competition" and take any action to intervene in the deal, but it has yet to receive notice from the companies. The deal will help bolster Grab's meal-delivery service, which will merge with Uber Eats, compete with Go-Jek. Go-Jek has become a dominant player and powerful rival in Indonesia, the region's biggest economy, and it has rapidly expanded beyond ride hailing to digital payments, food delivery and on-demand cleaning and massage. Ride-hailing companies throughout Asia have relied heavily on discounts and promotions, driving down profit margins and increasing pressure for consolidation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Uber, which is preparing for a potential initial public offering in 2019, lost $4.5 billion last year and is facing fierce competition at home in the United States and across Asia, as well as a regulatory crackdown in Europe. Uber invested $700 million in its Southeast Asia business. Uber previously sold operations in China and Russia to local rivals under former CEO Travis Kalanick. The deal with Grab is the first operations sale by Khosrowshahi, who started in September. MORE CONSOLIDATION But Uber's CEO does not want to make these mergers a pattern, and said he has no plans to do another sale in which it consolidates its operations in exchange for a minority stake in a rival. Advertisement "It is fair to ask whether consolidation is now the strategy of the day, given this is the third deal of its kind ... The answer is no," Khosrowshahi said in a note to employees that was shared with Reuters. "One of the potential dangers of our global strategy is that we take on too many battles across too many fronts and with too many competitors." SoftBank is also an investor in India's Ola, another competitive and costly market where rivals have heavily subsidized rides in an effort to gain market share. But a source familiar with Uber's strategy said the company was going to step up its battle with Ola in India, where Uber has close to 60 percent of the market, by some estimates, but is losing money. SoftBank's Misra sees opportunities for mergers and joint ventures between SoftBank-backed ride-hailing companies, particularly for collaborating on research and development, but the investor would never get actively involved with management decisions, the person familiar with the matter said. Uber includes the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Latin America among its core markets – regions where it has more than 50 percent market share and is profitable or sees a path to profitability. (Reporting by Aradhana Aravindan in Singapore and Heather Somerville in San Francisco; writing by Miyoung Kim; editing by Peter Henderson, Stephen Coates and Lisa Shumaker) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 11:30 P.M. E.D.T.
 DALLAS —  Reid Boucher and Nic Dowd are near the bottom of Vancouver's scoring leaderboard, with the Canucks sitting near the bottom of the standings. They combined to help Vancouver pull Dallas down toward the bottom Sunday night. Boucher and Dowd each scored on the power play in a 4-1 win over the reeling Dallas Stars, who are stuck in an 0-6-2 skid. It was the third goal of the season for each of Vancouver's surprise contributors. Dowd wasn't even supposed to be on the ice on the power play. "We were short a guy, and he jumped on the ice," Canucks coach Travis Green said. "I think I was yelling at him for going out there, and then yelling at him for scoring." Advertisement Jake Virtanen scored in the third period, and Tyler Motte added an empty-net goal with 41 seconds left. Advertisement "It was nice to get contributions throughout our lineup," Green said. "Really four young guys getting on the scoresheet was nice." Dallas' Mattias Janmark scored a short-handed goal in the first period. Thirty seconds later on the same Vancouver power play, Boucher scored. All three of Boucher's goals have come in the Canucks' two games at Dallas. Vancouver shut down the Stars' line of Jamie Benn, Tyler Seguin and Alexander Radulov, who had scored at least one goal in each of Dallas' previous eight games. "They're as good as it gets in the league," Green said. "We put the (Brandon) Sutter line against them as much as we could. (Goalie Jacob Markstrom) was great, made some big saves on those guys." Markstrom had 30 saves, including one on a 2-on-1 rush in the first period. "(Michael) Del Zotto did a real good job of kind of forcing them to make a difficult pass," Markstrom said. "It was a slow pass to give me time to get over."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Canucks, tied for 28th in the NHL ahead of only Arizona and Buffalo, won for the second time in 10 games. "You see the guys crack a smile now," Dowd said. "Regardless of where you are in the standings, you want to win every single night." Dowd scored his goal with one second left on a four-minute power play in the second period. The Stars have all but fallen out of playoff contention. With six games remaining, they are five points behind St. Louis for the second wild card from the Western Conference. The eight-game losing streak is the longest since the Stars moved to Dallas in 1993. Advertisement "We don't deserve to win right now," Stars defenseman John Klingberg said. "We don't have any confidence at all the way we're playing right now." Dallas coach Ken Hitchcock agreed. "I think when your scoring chances are all in the first half of the game and not in the second half, that's kind of telling," he said. "I think losing does that, you do lose confidence." Jussi Jokinen assisted on the Canucks' first two goals. NOTES: Vancouver outscored the Stars 10-1 in the two games in Dallas. ... Lehtonen stopped 23 shots. ... Janmark's short-handed goal was his second this season, Dallas' second in two games and the Stars' sixth this season. Vancouver has allowed six short-handed goals. ... Jokinen began his career with Dallas in 2005 and has played for nine NHL teams, including four this season. He had his first two-point game since Dec. 15 for the Kings against the Rangers. ... Canucks D Ashton Sautner made his NHL debut as an emergency call-up for Chris Tanev, who was injured in Friday's game at St. Louis. Sautner was playing for Utica in the AHL, where he had spent all of his three pro seasons. "I thought he was really good," Green said. "He didn't panic." ... The Minnesota/Dallas franchise has had four eight-game losing streaks. The North Stars lost nine in a row from Jan. 17 to Feb. 4, 1970. UP NEXT Canucks: Begin their final homestand (five games) against Anaheim on Tuesday night. Stars: Finish a three-game homestand Tuesday night vs. Philadelphia. ___ More AP hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 10:47 P.M. E.D.T.
 OKLAHOMA CITY —  The Thunder could regret this missed opportunity. CJ McCollum scored 34 points to help the Portland Trail Blazers beat Oklahoma City 108-105 on Sunday night. Portland doubled its lead to two games over the Thunder for third place in the Western Conference. The Thunder had several chances to win. Oklahoma City got possession trailing by two with 18.5 seconds remaining. Oklahoma City's Carmelo Anthony got trapped in the corner and forced his way through before turning the ball over. Oklahoma City's Russell Westbrook then fouled Portland's Al-Farouq Aminu with 7 seconds to play and fouled out. Aminu made the first free throw and missed the second to give the Thunder a chance to force overtime, but Anthony missed a 3-pointer as time expired. Thunder coach Billy Donovan felt Anthony was the right person to take the final shot with Westbrook out, despite the fact that he had made just 3 of 12 shots before taking that last jumper. "Carmelo is a proven scorer in this league and has made shots — big shots — for a large portion of his career," Donovan said. "I've got confidence in him. So we'll go with him in that situation. That's just how I felt." Advertisement The arena had the energy of a playoff game, especially in the second half. McCollum liked the way the Trail Blazers had to scrape and claw to get the win in a hostile environment. Advertisement "Being down and having to compete, going on runs, coming back and just having to get stops down the stretch," he said. "They are a good team and made the game very difficult. We executed well on offense to come away with a win." Damian Lillard scored 24 points, and Jusuf Nurkic added 17 points and 12 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who swept all four games with the Thunder this season. Westbrook led the Thunder with 23 points, nine assists and eight rebounds. Steven Adams had 18 points and 10 rebounds, and Jerami Grant added 17 points. Oklahoma City trailed 44-29 in the second quarter before going on a 16-0 run to take the lead. Portland regrouped and led 57-52 at halftime.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the third quarter, Portland's Ed Davis came down on Oklahoma City guard Terrance Ferguson's back, and Davis shoved him as the two fell toward the ground. Ferguson got up quickly and went after Davis, and a skirmish followed. Four technical fouls were issued — to Evan Turner and Davis for Portland and to Ferguson and Westbrook for the Thunder. Shortly after that, Oklahoma City's Paul George hit a 3 to give the Thunder a 75-74 lead. Portland's Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer as the third quarter expired to put the Trail Blazers up 82-80. "I thought it was a hell of a basketball game," Portland coach Terry Stotts said. "You can tell this meant a lot to both teams. I thought we made a lot of good plays defensively. We were very good when we needed to be." TIP-INS Trail Blazers: Held the Thunder to 29 percent shooting in the first quarter to lead 34-17. ... Outrebounded Oklahoma City 49-39. Thunder: Shot 14 or 21 from the field in the second quarter. ... Westbrook didn't score until just under six minutes remained in the second quarter. ... Fell to 7-2 with G Corey Brewer in the starting lineup. ... Westbrook fouled out for the first time this season. Advertisement STAT OF THE NIGHT Anthony and George shot a combined 7 for 28 overall and 0 for 12 from 3-point range. HE SAID IT Lillard on how Portland played down the stretch: "We just continued to make the right plays. We continued to hustle for those loose balls and those extra possessions. On the defensive end, we got some fouls and they scored some points, but it was hard work for them. We made them earn everything, and it came down to that team that was going to make that one extra play." UP NEXT Trail Blazers: At New Orleans on Tuesday night. Thunder: At San Antonio on Thursday night. ___ Follow Cliff Brunt on Twitter: www.twitter.com/CliffBruntAP . ___ For more NBA coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By KATIE VAN SYCKLEMARCH 26, 2018
 Last January, I was waiting behind a velvet rope on a red carpet at the Adult Video News Awards at the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas. Steps away from the slot machines, photographers and video crews lined up next to me. Adult film stars like Nina Hartley, Jessica Drake and even Stormy Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford, paused and posed for the cameras. Except on this red carpet, unlike the hundreds I’ve stood on to cover film premieres, theater openings and fashion galas, begging everyone from Al Gore to Rihanna for a minute and a half of their time, the honorees at the AVN Awards weren’t being pulled away by publicists. Instead, the adult film stars wanted to talk. I was at the AVNs on assignment for a previous employer, New York Magazine. At the time, I was writing about topics like sexual violence, consent, Title IX and the anti-rape movement on college campuses. The theory that adult film was shaping modern sexuality came up often in conversation. But, in the same breath, pornography was often dismissed as a subject that was too big, unwieldy, taboo and icky to tackle. But as I started reporting on adult film, I approached it as a beat like any other, and I found that performers wanted to talk. They understood their significance in American culture, even if no one else did. Advertisement Whatever you think about adult film, it is one of the most consumed forms of media in the world. Pornhub, the popular pornography website, draws 80 million visitors a day. Exact figures for the size of the industry are scarce, but experts put total sales around a billion dollars a year. Plus, studies show that adult film has become a form of sex education for young people around the world. Advertisement It is also, now, a regular subject in the news. A top adult film star, Jessica Drake, is one of the women who has accused President Donald J. Trump of sexual assault (he has denied the allegations). And of course, Stormy Daniels, whom I profiled with two colleagues, Matt Flegenheimer and Rebecca R. Ruiz, in a front-page story yesterday, is suing Mr. Trump, with whom she claimed she had a consensual affair, in order to be released from a nondisclosure agreement signed shortly before the 2016 election. But gradually, the subject of adult film is getting a closer look. In 2014, scholars founded the academic journal “Porn Studies.” In 2015, the actress Rashida Jones produced a documentary, “Hot Girls Wanted,” on the amateur porn scene in South Florida. The film later became a Netflix series of the same name and remains a major subject of conversation in adult film circles. Recently, a New York Times Magazine cover story, “What Teenagers Are Learning From Online Porn,” explored how much pornography teens consume and what effects it is having on their personal lives. Still, the industry remains shrouded in mystery, and very little has been written about the companies who make adult film. For example: Who owns them? When were they founded? How do they make money? Is it true that one company owns most of the content produced on the web? (Yes — MindGeek.) How hard was it for Ms. Clifford to become a top adult film performer and director? To learn as much as possible, I traveled to industry conferences like XBIZ Miami, AVN in Las Vegas and Exxxotica New Jersey to meet industry leaders and understand their careers. I interviewed dozens of performers, agents, lawyers, producers, webcam models, website hosts and even executives from billing companies about how their jobs have evolved with changing technology. I discovered issues that exist within the industry that the mainstream media avoids. Sexual assault and the #MeToo movement have come to adult film sets, with major accusations of sexual assault levied against prominent performers. Workers are organizing and demanding rights through a newly established union. In addition to exploitation within the industry, adult film performers say their work makes it difficult to get basic services like bank accounts. As her lawsuit against Mr. Trump proceeds, it seems Ms. Clifford will remain in the public eye for some time to come — and with that may come a shift that finally puts this powerful business into focus. A version of this article appears in print on March 26, 2018, on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: What It’s Like to Report About Porn.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:44 P.M. E.D.T.
 A big believer in asking for advice, Loyola-Chicago coach Porter Moser is in the process of tapping into his friends and associates in search of a few Final Four hacks. Moser did not want to reveal during a teleconference Monday with reporters to whom he was turning for tips. He did mention one person he would have liked to have been able to connect with during the last phase of the Ramblers' improbable NCAA Tournament run. "I wish Coach (Rick) Majerus was around," Moser said. "Obviously I was so close to him, and, ironically, it was 20 years ago almost to the date that he was in San Antonio with his Utah team. I wish I could tap into that." Moser will be the only coach in the national semifinals in San Antonio this weekend who has not previously taken his team to a Final Four. Michigan coach John Beilein, whose team will face Moser's 11th-seeded Ramblers in Saturday's first game, is making his second Final Four appearance with the Wolverines. Michigan lost the NCAA championship game in 2013 to Louisville. Advertisement On the other side of the bracket, both Villanova's Jay Wright and Kansas' Bill Self are leading their teams to the Final Four for a third time. Each has won a title. Advertisement The 49-year-old Moser worked as an assistant for the late Majerus at Saint Louis for four seasons in between a stint as Illinois State head coach and taking the Loyola job in 2011. Majerus, who died in 2012, took Utah to the Final Four in 1998, losing to Kentucky in the title game. With Majerus gone, Moser has tried to channel him through mutual friends and admirers, such as former University of Utah player and Saint Louis assistant coach Alex Jensen. "I worked with Al Jensen, who's now at the Utah Jazz, and we were texting each other and going to have a conversation, and we were talking about a couple things Coach Majerus was doing," Moser said. "But I definitely am in the school of thought, it is my first time, and if I can get any advice or anything, I'll take it all in and then mix it to what we do." Beilein said what sets Final Four weekend apart is the time demands, including media obligations. "It's our duty as college basketball teams and (for) fans to satisfy those requests. But it is, it's a lot of the same questions over and over and over and over again, and you've just got to do it and do it the right way," Beilein said. "Do not get frustrated by it because you will have enough time to plan if you plan your day right."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Along those same lines, Wright said the grandness of the whole thing can be overwhelming. "Man, where do you start? First, it's understanding the enormity of it, that when you get there, it's going to blow you away," Wright said. "And I would even give more advice now in that when we went in '09, it blew us away, right, so I knew to expect that." Wright's Wildcats lost the national semifinals to North Carolina in '09. In 2016, Villanova beat the Tar Heels for the championship. "The difference in seven years, what they had done to the Final Four and all of the trappings and the murals on the side of buildings of your players, everything had grown so much, I was shocked. Still shocked, even though we had been there before," Wright said. "Just to understand, don't feel like you're not worth it when you get there and you're blown away. It happens to everybody. And just try to concentrate on the basketball part of it." Advertisement Everything about the last month has been new and exciting to Moser and the Ramblers, starting with their Missouri Valley Conference championship and first NCAA appearance for the school since 1985. Nothing has fazed Sister Jean's team. "So I love that they're enjoying this," Moser said. "Now, with that said, times it by about 100 with the Final Four hoopla, and I get that. I'm going to let them enjoy the ride, and when we're in film, when we're in practice, when we're in walk-throughs in the ball room, everything is going to be as normal, as focused and about what we do. These guys are mature enough to handle it, and that's all I can do. I mean, you can't simulate what's about to happen. They've got to go through it, and I want them to go through it." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:07 P.M. E.D.T.
 YORK, England —  Nestle is launching a lower-sugar Milkybar made with a new version of the sweetener which could help ease the $185 billion confectionery industry's growing public health headache. Milkybar Wowsomes, a new more expensive take on the 81-year-old white chocolate made famous by the gun-slinging Milkybar Kid ads, will be on shelves in Britain and Ireland in coming weeks. The world's largest packaged food company says the new bars have 30 percent less sugar than a typical chocolate bar, helped by the use of Nestle's new ingredient, sugar that has been physically altered to be lighter and dissolve faster. But they have only 3 percent fewer calories, due to extra natural ingredients. The new sugar, first discussed publicly in 2016, partly addresses one of Big Food's toughest challenges - how to make junk food healthy but keep it tasty. Advertisement "Health is important, but ... many consumers are not ready to give up taste," Vontobel analyst Jean-Philippe Bertschy said. "If you could have a tablet of chocolate with the same taste with 30 percent less sugar, I think consumers would jump on it." Advertisement Nestle's marketing chief says the aim of the new chocolate, which underwent more than 300 recipe tweaks, is to give parents the option of a healthier treat for their children. Unlike the original plain white Milkybar chocolate, Wowsomes have a chocolate shell around a creamy center containing both the lighter sugar and crisped oat cereal. "We felt it was important to signal that this brand is evolving and answering new consumer trends," Patrice Bula, head of marketing, told Reuters. Nestle is under shareholder pressure to accelerate sales after six years of slowing growth, with the sector struggling as consumers seek fresher foods and flock to new, independent brands seen as healthier or more ethical. Governments are also cracking down on sugar to help fight obesity, but taxes, like the one coming into effect in Britain next week, generally concentrate on soft drinks. Companies like Nestle are trying to stay ahead. Next month it is rolling out San Pellegrino soft drinks with the low-calorie sugar substitute stevia, which will keep the fruit-flavored drinks below the new British tax threshold. Nestle's new invention is not for use in drinks and for now, it is just in confectionery - one of the toughest categories to reformulate, as chocolate can be up to 55 percent sugar. Advertisement SUGAR RUSH Nestle executives said it was too early to specify how much this development would curb sugar purchases, although the company is looking to cut back over time. Although the move by one of the world's largest sugar buyers will not impact demand overnight, it may serve as a litmus test for other manufacturers, industry sources said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Nestle's business in the UK and Ireland has already taken out 10,400 tonnes of sugar from its portfolio since 2015. A long-term move away from sugar could spell disaster for farmers in top producing countries like India and Brazil, which together produce over 65 million tonnes of the sweetener each year.  Global production continues to rise, outstripping demand and hurting prices. Benchmark raw sugar prices have slid 17 percent so far this year, after falling over 22 percent last year. http://tmsnrt.rs/2DIcmEG Following the UK test, Nestle hopes to roll the sugar out elsewhere, focusing first on childrens' confectionery brands. "We have quite a few brands in a lot of markets in Latin America, but also in Europe and Asia that could use that technology," Bula said. The company declined to say how much the project had cost, but for Jas Scott de Martinville, head of confectionery research and development and the product technology center in the northern English city of York, where the chocolate was developed, it was money well spent. "Every time you create something as break-through as this, you learn so much ... Our scientists in Switzerland will use the knowledge gained to help us advance in other categories." In 2016, Nestle said the product had the potential to reduce total sugar by up to 40 percent in confectionery. Milkybar Wowsomes have only a 30 percent reduction, partly because the chocolate shell utilizes regular sugar. Advertisement POROUS PARTICLES Nestle says the new sugar is made by spraying a mixture of sugar, milk powder and water into warm air which forms a porous sugar structure that melts more quickly, meaning that less sugar can be used for the same amount of sweetness. The idea is similar to that behind SODA-LO Salt Microspheres, which Tate & Lyle launched in 2012, with  hollow spheres that allow for sodium reduction. Most packaged food makers have initiatives aimed at making their products healthier, but some say there is a limit. "It would not make sense to cut sugar in all our chocolate by 2-3 percent or to use stevia everywhere," Lindt & Spruengli CEO Dieter Weisskopf said this month. "That would harm the taste." (Additional reporting by Chris Prentice in New York and Silke Koltrowitz in Zurich; Editing by Alexander Smith) We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:59 P.M. E.D.T.
 David Esquer knew he was taking over a talented Stanford ballclub when his alma mater hired him to succeed his mentor, Mark Marquess. He certainly didn't envision wins in 17 of the first 19 games and a ranking as high as No. 2 in the major polls. "Oh, man, it's been great to be back home, and yeah, the start has been more than I could expect," Esquer said Monday, the day after Stanford beat Southern California 18-0 to complete a three-game sweep in which it outscored the Trojans 34-2. Stanford, as always, is anchored by strong pitching. The Cardinal's 2.06 ERA ranks first in the nation, and they're in the top 11 in the other major pitching statistics. Tristan Beck (3-0) and Kris Bubic (4-0) are returning weekend starters, freshman left-handed relievers Austin Weiermiller (4-1) and Jacob Palisch (2-0) have pleasantly surprised Esquer, and sophomore Jack Little has six saves since taking over as closer. Advertisement All-Pac-12 shortstop Nico Hoerner leads a lineup that had to be reconfigured right before first pitch of the opener when second baseman Duke Kinamon strained a muscle in warmups. Kinamon still hasn't played. Advertisement The Cardinal prepped for the Pac-12 with nonconference series against Cal State Fullerton, Rice, Michigan at home and a trip to Texas, where they won three of four. "We learned a lot about ourselves and we won a lot of games, which you like to see," Esquer said. "We're ready for a lot of different styles of play. I don't think there is going to be arm strength we haven't seen already, or plus-breaking balls we haven't seen already. We're prepared for whatever is out there in college baseball." Esquer played under Marquess on Stanford's 1987 national championship team and was his assistant from 1991-96. He spent 18 seasons as head coach at California, where he was 2011 national coach of the year for leading the Bears to the College World Series. Esquer said he talks or sees Marquess at least once a week. The Cardinal played in an NCAA regional in the last of Marquess' 41 seasons on The Farm, and Esquer said his old coach left with everything in place for him to succeed.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The most important thing he did was give me his blessing if it were me who would be so lucky to get the job," Esquer said. "When you have so much respect for somebody and what he's done for the baseball program, you want to see him have this program continue how he would like it, not go in another direction." A look around the country: ___ IN THE POLLS Oregon State (20-2) remains the consensus No. 1. The Beavers took two of three against Washington over the weekend, with an 8-4 loss Sunday ending their 15-game Pac-12 win streak. Florida (21-5) and Stanford (17-2) are Nos. 2 and 3 by D1Baseball.com and Baseball America. Collegiate Baseball newspaper has Stanford No. 2 and Florida No. 3. TOUGH TO STRIKE OUT Clayton Andrews of Long Beach State has struck out just once in 86 at-bats, which might surprise no one around the 49ers program. He struck out seven times in 351 at-bats the last two seasons at Cabrillo College. His only strikeout this year was March 10, when Texas A&M's Asa Lacy caught him looking on a 2-2 pitch. LIPUT'S GALLANT RETURN Deacon Liput has been a major factor for Florida in the 12 games since he returned from suspension, batting .313 and driving in 11 runs. He was 6 for 13 with a home run, five RBIs and four runs in the Gators' weekend series win over Arkansas. Advertisement Liput was an offensive catalyst during the Gators' run to the national championship last year. He returned for his junior season after the Dodgers drafted him in the 29th round. He began the season suspended for an incident in the fall. LA VIDA LOCO FOR LOBO New Mexico's Danny Collier hit for the cycle against Air Force on Saturday, topping off his big day with a walk-off home run in the 10th inning for a 12-11 win. The home run was his first of the season and fourth of his career. WATCH OUT Maine junior right-hander Chris Murphy has hit a nation-high 12 batters in 16 innings. It's not out of character for him. In 73 1/3 career innings, he's plunked 32. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:30 A.M. E.D.T.
 RALEIGH, N.C. —  Welcome to a Final Four filled with past national champions — just the way the NCAA selection committee drew it up, right? OK, maybe not. Sure, there's plenty of the expected with 1-seed Villanova making it to San Antonio in pursuit of the program's second title in three seasons. Kansas is the other 1-seed to navigate its way through a maze full of upsets as it pursues its first title since 2008. And plenty figured No. 3 seed Michigan had a good shot to get to the Final Four as the Wolverines chase their first title since the Glen Rice-led group won the program's first in 1989. But Loyola-Chicago? Consider the 11th-seeded Ramblers the representative for all the low seeds — UMBC, Marshall and Buffalo, to name a few — that pulled off the big stunners in an upset-filled and memorable March. Advertisement And yes, the Ramblers do have a national championship, won way back in 1963 during the Kennedy administration. Advertisement Now it's time to prepare for next Saturday's first national semifinal (Loyola vs. Michigan ) featuring the upstart against the surging power-conference team in an undercard to the heavyweight matchup of top seeds in the nightcap. It's a particular relief for Kansas, which had a No. 1 seed for the third straight season and lost in the Elite Eight the past two seasons — including in 2016 to Villanova as the Wildcats marched to the national title. "You think about it, hey, in their careers all we've been is the No. 1 overall seed, the No. 2 overall seed and the No. 3 overall seed and haven't gotten to a Final Four," coach Bill Self said after Sunday's overtime win against Duke in Omaha, Nebraska. "So that means that these guys have done so well to put us in a position but we hadn't kicked the door in yet. "I'm happy for us, staff, school, everything, but I'm more happy for these guys because they deserve to experience what the best of college basketball is — and that will be what takes place Saturday and Monday." FORESHADOWING?: If you're into good omens, note that Kansas won its last title in San Antonio by beating North Carolina and Memphis under Self a decade ago. And that was the program's first since Danny Manning and The Miracles won the 1988 title as a No. 6 seed — now an even 30 years ago. So maybe years ending in eight bring a bit of luck for the Jayhawks? RANKING THE SEEDS: Villanova was the No. 2 overall seed behind Virginia on Selection Sunday, putting the Wildcats as the headliner followed by Kansas at third. Michigan was No. 11 and Loyola-Chicago was No. 46. WINING UGLY: Villanova and Michigan should arrive in Texas with an extra bit of confidence after winning games when they shot poorly.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Wildcats shot just 33 percent and made 4 of 24 3-pointers (.167) in Sunday's East final against Texas Tech . The Wolverines shot nearly 39 percent but made just 4 of 22 3s (.182) in Saturday night's West final against Florida State . Advertisement On top of that, they combined to make 4 of 27 3s after halftime (.148). Yet here they are. TITLE HISTORY: Top seeds have hoisted the trophy on the final Monday night of the season in 18 of the past 26 NCAA Tournaments, while No. 3 seeds have won three times (Syracuse in 2003, Florida in 2006, Connecticut in 2011) in that span. Villanova remains the lowest-seeded team to win a title as a No. 8 in 1985. NOT SO WILD AFTER ALL: With all the upsets, it sure looked like the Final Four had a chance to be filled with surprises. It didn't end up that way. The sum of the seeds for the four teams is 16, the highest since 2014 (18). But it was a far cry from joining the four other years since the tournament began seeding teams in 1979 that the combined total was at least 20: 1980 (21), 2000 (22), 2006 (20) and 2011 (26). The last two of those were the most recent to feature an 11-seed before Loyola-Chicago's run, with George Mason getting there in 2006 and VCU doing it in 2011. The only other Final Four to feature a No. 11 seed came in 1986 with LSU, though the combined seed total was 15 on the strength of 1-seeds Duke and Kansas, and 2-seed Louisville (the eventual champion behind freshman Pervis Ellison) joining the Tigers in Dallas. ACC'S MISS: The Atlantic Coast Conference was trying to get a team into the national-title game for the fourth straight year but ultimately fell short of the Final Four. Duke won the championship in 2015. Rival North Carolina lost to Villanova in the 2016 title game before coming all the way back and winning the 2017 title against Gonzaga. And 10th-seeded  Syracuse was a surprise semifinalist in 2016 after upsetting No. 1 seed Virginia in a regional final. IMPROVED NUMBERS: ESPN said none of the 17.3 million entrees had the Elite Eight teams correct in its Tournament Challenge picks contest. But 550 people correctly had the Final Four teams. Villanova was the most popular pick to get there, winning the East Region on 58.4 percent of the submitted brackets. ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events Advertisement ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018
 Bubba Watson won his second World Golf Championships title on Sunday with the biggest blowout since the championship matches switched to 18 holes in 2011, a 7-and-6 victory over Kevin Kisner in the Dell Technologies Match Play event in Austin, Tex. Watson was not as sharp as he was in the semifinals against Justin Thomas, whom he beat in 16 holes to keep Thomas from rising to No. 1 in the world ranking, but he did not have to be. If not for a missed 4-foot birdie putt on the par-5 sixth, Watson would have won the first seven holes. Kisner had a lot to do with that. After escaping in 19 holes against Alex Noren in his semifinal match, Kisner did not put up much of a fight. He made four straight bogeys and putted for birdie only twice on the front nine. “I don’t know what was going on,” Kisner said. “It was just pitiful. I’ve just got to forget this 12 holes and get back to working on the things that got me here.” Advertisement Watson, who hardly ever makes it so far in match play, had planned to leave the country on Sunday for a family vacation, which he had to postpone. Advertisement But he never trailed in the 28 holes he played Sunday and was never seriously threatened. The tougher match was against Thomas, the P.G.A. champion, who needed only to reach the championship match to replace Dustin Johnson at No. 1. Watson went out to a 3-up lead on the front nine, and when Thomas closed to 1 down at the turn with his first birdie putt, Watson won two of the next three holes and regained control. Thomas did not make another birdie until the par-5 16th, and by then it was too late. Watson made his birdie from 3 feet for a 3-and-2 victory. Thomas said he had been too consumed with what was at stake in the semifinals. “I haven’t had such a hard time not thinking about something so much,” Thomas said. Noren beat Thomas in the consolation match, 5 and 3. One year after Watson disappeared from among the elite in golf, he has won twice in his last four starts. He was No. 117 in the world when he arrived at Riviera, where he won for the third time in his career. With his 11th victory on the PGA Tour, he is back up to No. 21. A two-time Masters champion, Watson added his name to the growing list of contenders at Augusta National.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “I’m looking forward to it, and hopefully I can get this focus and my putter rolling like it is,” he said. PGA TOUR Brice Garnett completed a wire-to-wire victory in the Corales Puntacana Resort and Club Championship in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, for his first PGA Tour title. Two strokes ahead after three late windblown bogeys on Saturday, Garnett closed with a two-under-par 70 in windy and rainy conditions for a four-stroke victory over Keith Mitchell. Garnett, 34, a two-time winner last year on the Web.com Tour, finished at 18-under 270. He opened with a 63 and added rounds of 69 and 70. Mitchell followed a third-round 75 with a 67. Advertisement Kelly Kraft was third at 13 under after a 67, and Denny McCarthy (70) was 12 under. Harris English (70) and K. J. Choi (66) topped the group at 11 under. The former Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo dropped out on Friday, finishing last in the 132-man field in his PGA Tour debut. He shot 77 and 82 playing as an amateur on a sponsor exemption. PGA TOUR CHAMPIONS  Steve Stricker pulled away on the back nine at Fallen Oak in Biloxi, Miss., and won the Rapiscan Systems Classic, his second straight PGA Tour Champions victory. Stricker, 51, closed with a four-under 68, birdieing all four par-5 holes on the Tom Fazio-designed layout with big and fast greens. He finished at 11-under 205 for a three-stroke victory over Billy Andrade. A version of this article appears in print on March 26, 2018, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Watson Cruises to Match Play Title in Texas.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 9:59 P.M. E.D.T.
 INDIANAPOLIS —  The Indiana Pacers aren't ready to celebrate just yet after clinching a playoff berth. Victor Oladipo had 23 points and five assists, Thaddeus Young added 22 points, nine rebounds and five steals to help the Pacers beat the Miami Heat 113-107 in overtime Sunday, earning their seventh postseason berth in the last eight seasons. "Our (job) is still not done," Young said. "We're in the playoffs, but now we want seeding. We want to get as high of a seed as possible and we're just going to continue to play and try to win as many games as possible. But the monkey is off our back now that we're actually in." Bojan Bogdanovic added 18 points and eight rebounds for the Pacers. A trip to the playoffs seemed farfetched eight months ago when four-time All-Star Paul George went to Oklahoma City in what appeared to a be a lopsided trade between the Pacers and Thunder. General manager Kevin Pritchard's offseason moves have paid off. Advertisement Oladipo, who was part of the trade, has been a big part of Indiana's success. "We found a guy that can close," Pacers coach Nate McMillan said. "Vic has shown he can close. We are not here if we didn't have that." Advertisement Oladipo made a 3-pointer in overtime as Indiana pulled away. Darren Collison, who finished with 12 points, made the go ahead 3-pointer to put the Pacers ahead 101-100 with 2:49 remaining in the extra period, and Indiana scored 11 straight points to build a lead. The Pacers took a 109-102 lead with Collison's 3-pointer with 55 seconds left to play. Tyler Johnson made five 3-pointers and finished with 19 points, James Johnson had 15 points and nine rebounds, and Bam Adebayo added 14 points for the Heat, who split the four-game season series. Miami coach Erik Spoelstra missed the first game of his career, leaving Indianapolis on Saturday after learning his wife Nikki was entering labor. Their first child, a son, was born on Sunday. Assistant coach Dan Craig filled in and Spoelstra is expected to return for Miami's home game against Cleveland on Tuesday. The Heat came back from an eight-point deficit in the second half. James Johnson forced overtime with a free throw with 8.3 seconds left in regulation. He missed the free throw that would have won it for Miami.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He had a terrific game and that last play for him was exactly what we wanted," Craig said. "He got to the basket, got fouled and got two free throw (attempts)." Indiana trailed by 14 in the first half and went on a 9-1 run late in the second quarter to take a 50-46 lead on Oladipo's jumper with 2:22 remaining in the half. The Heat then scored seven straight, including a dunk and two free throws by Adebayo. And James Johnson's free throw gave with under a second left gave Miami a 53-52 halftime lead. TIP-INS Heat: Miami has lost two straight road games and 11 of its last 12 away from American Airlines Arena. . Tyler Johnson had 12 points in the first quarter alone. ... Adebayo also had five rebounds. Advertisement Pacers: Indiana shot 66.7 percent in overtime and 48.9 percent overall. ... F Domantas Sabonis was out for a sixth straight game with a left sprained ankle. TURNOVER TOWN Miami had 10 turnovers and Indiana had four in the first half, and both teams finished with 17 apiece. It almost cost the Pacers. They had a stretch late in the fourth quarter with four turnovers in five possessions and the Heat took the lead when Goran Dragic scored to make it 95-93 with 2:18 left in regulation. But Miami then committed turnovers on back-to-back possessions. UP NEXT Heat: Host Cleveland on Tuesday. Pacers: At Golden State on Tuesday for the first of a four-game west coast trip. ___ More NBA basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 9:32 P.M. E.D.T.
 OMAHA, Neb. —  Grayson Allen curled to the left side of the lane, jumped and kicked out his left leg a bit as he let fly the shot that would send Duke to the Final Four over two Kansas defenders. With the clock showing less than a second left in regulation, the ball teasingly bounced off the backboard, hit the front of the rim, bounced off the backboard and rim once more — and swirled out to the right. "I thought it was in," star big man Marvin Bagley III said. So did Allen, who watched as the ball fell away. Sunday's game stayed tied 72-72 and was headed for overtime. Kansas' Malik Newman, the Midwest Region Most Outstanding player, took over from there, and the Jayhawks won 85-81 . Season over for Duke. Career over for Allen. "Yeah, that thing rolled around the rim about four times," Allen said. "I thought it was going in. It's not a good feeling." Advertisement Allen never found his rhythm in Omaha. He was 7 for 28 in games against Syracuse and Kansas, 5 for 23 on 3-pointers. He made clutch free throws late in regulation to keep the Blue Devils tied or in the lead against Kansas. His only field goal since the first half, though, was a meaningless 3-pointer four seconds before Kansas started celebrating its victory. Advertisement Allen's four seasons at Duke were over, and off the court walked — depending on your perspective — one of the most reviled or celebrated college basketball players in America. "It's like a shock to your body because you don't plan for a loss," Allen said. "You expect to keep going and going. Then it's so abrupt when it hits you. It's over. I can't really wrap my head around it yet." It was at the 2015 Final Four that Allen burst onto the scene. He was the fourth and often overlooked member of Duke's heralded freshman class that year. He ended up scoring 16 points in the national championship game in a win over Wisconsin that gave the Blue Devils their fifth title. He put off entering the NBA draft after his sophomore and junior years because he loved Duke, loved college basketball and wanted a chance to play for another Final Four and championship.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He's a 2,000-point scorer. He's a national champion. He's been our leader this year," coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "He's one of the outstanding players to have ever played in our program." For all he did statistically as a playmaker and 14.1-point career scorer, Krzyzewski remembers him this season for his leadership and ability to mesh with four outstanding freshmen in the lineup, especially after the switch to a zone defense in mid-February. "And you're a shot away, a roll away from being in the Final Four," Krzyzewski said. Had that last shot in regulation fallen, it still wouldn't have undone the things Allen will long be remembered for at Duke. On Saturday, Allen said he had accepted and embraced his reputation among all those Duke haters. The Atlantic Coast Conference reprimanded him for appearing to deliberately trip two players in 2016. Last year he tripped an opponent and was suspended for one game by Coach K and had his team captain's title removed. Advertisement Allen mostly stayed out of trouble this season, except for when he put a hip check on North Carolina's Garrison Brooks in the ACC Tournament. "Obviously I went through a lot of ups and downs, a lot of rough moments, a rough patch last year," he said. His hope, of course, was to extend his senior season one more week in San Antonio. "All my plans for playing in the Final Four aren't going to happen," he said. "That's why it's hard to grasp. So many emotions come forward at once. I feel I could smile and cry all at once." ___ More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:52 P.M. E.D.T.
 CAIRO —  Egyptians began voting Monday in an election that virtually guaranteed another term for President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, who faced only a token opponent in balloting that resembled the referendums held by autocrats for decades before the Arab Spring briefly raised hopes of democratic change. El-Sissi's only challenger was Moussa Mustafa Moussa, a little-known politician who joined the race at the last minute to spare the government the embarrassment of a one-candidate election after several hopefuls were forced out or arrested. Authorities hope enough of Egypt's nearly 60 million eligible voters will participate in the three-day election to give it legitimacy. Local media, which are dominated by pro-government commentators, have portrayed voting as an obligation and the only way to prevent foreigners from sowing instability. Most polling places had only modest lines Monday, and some were empty for most of the day. Officials overseeing four polling centers in the greater Cairo area said turnout hovered around a lowly 7 percent by 6 p.m., three hours before their scheduled close for the day. They said they expected a dramatic increase on the final day Wednesday. Advertisement El-Sissi, a general who led the 2013 military overthrow of Egypt's first freely elected president, the Islamist Mohammed Morsi, voted at a school in the Cairo suburb of Heliopolis as soon as the polls opened at 9 a.m. He made no comment before heading for a meeting with his campaign team. Advertisement Moussa, who supported el-Sissi until he joined the race, made no effort to mount a challenge, and the president never mentioned him once in public. Replying to a reporter's question about his chances of winning, Moussa said: "It all depends on your prayers and your votes." "Today we want the people to come out and vote. ... It doesn't matter who wins as long as Egypt remains safe," he said after casting his ballot. Some potential candidates might have attracted a sizable protest vote, but they were all either arrested or intimidated into withdrawing, making this the least competitive election since the 2011 uprising that ousted longtime autocrat Hosni Mubarak. The vote came amid the harshest crackdown on dissent in Egypt's modern history, with thousands of Islamists as well as several prominent secular activists in jail. Unauthorized protests are banned, most critical voices in the local media have been silenced, and hundreds of websites, including those of independent media and rights groups, have been blocked. "I am not participating in this show because we all know who will win the vote," said Ahmed, a gas station attendant in Cairo's twin city of Giza. "Nobody dares to speak up anymore, and if I go out and protest, I will either be killed with a bullet or thrown in jail," said the 30-year-old, who asked that only his first name be used because of those fears. Advertisement Local TV showed festive scenes outside some polling stations, with women and children waving flags, singing nationalistic songs and dancing. The national election commission reported a large turnout in Cairo, Alexandria and northern Sinai, the epicenter of an insurgency led by the Islamic State group, but gave no figures. Pro-government media dubbed the vote a "democratic feast."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A shopkeeper in downtown dismissed the election, saying the world was laughing at Egypt. Added a young man named Ahmed, who was smoking a water pipe at a café in central Cairo: "I'm not lazy or apathetic. I'm intentionally skipping this one." Both asked that their full names not be used, fearing reprisals. Tens of thousands of police and soldiers were deployed for the vote. Authorities said Sunday that police had killed six militants believed to be involved in a weekend bombing in the coastal city of Alexandria in which two policemen died. Retired engineer Mohammed Ibrahim Ali patiently waited for the polls to open in Cairo's bustling Sayda Zeinab neighborhood, home to a famous Islamic shrine. "Even if there are 1,000 candidates, we will vote for el-Sissi," he said, struggling to be heard over patriotic songs blaring from speakers. "He is the one who makes life great here." Ahmed Abdel-Atti, a 58-year-old doorman in the same neighborhood, voiced skepticism. "Do you see any other candidates?" he asked. El-Sissi opted for carefully scripted televised appearances during the campaign. He donned military fatigues on recent occasions, highlighting the war on Islamic extremists and his past career as an army general. Many Egyptians had welcomed the military overthrow of Morsi, whose divisive rule had brought mass protests, and the subsequent crackdown on the Brotherhood. For a time, el-Sissi enjoyed a wave of popular support bordering on hysteria, but that aura has faded in the last four years. Advertisement In the Sinai Peninsula, the insurgency that gained strength after Morsi's overthrow has only grown more ferocious, with regular attacks on security forces and deadly church bombings. An assault on a mosque in November killed more than 300 people, the worst such attack in Egypt's modern history. Meanwhile, the government has enacted a series of long-overdue economic reforms, including painful subsidy cuts and the floatation of the currency. That improved the investment climate and earned Egypt a $12 billion bailout loan from the International Monetary Fund. But the austerity measures sent prices soaring, exacting a heavy toll on ordinary Egyptians. "I was a wholehearted (el-Sissi) supporter, but not anymore," said a man who recently lost his job in a telecommunications company and now works at a Cairo gas station. "Yes, there are big projects, but he takes from us, the poor, not from them, the rich. We are the people who are living day to day." He also asked that his full name not be used, fearing trouble from authorities. Khaled Abdel-Lateef, who sells fresh juice in downtown Cairo, struck an upbeat note, saying authorities need more time. "We need to be patient," he said. "The good things will come. At the very least, we have security." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:14 A.M. E.D.T.
 WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump isn't always bringing genuine statistics to the fight as he goes after China on trade. Trump stretched credulity on a variety of subjects over the past week, trade among them. He mangled comments from 2016 presidential rival Hillary Clinton, inflated expectations of an overhaul in health services for veterans and gave his administration too much credit for defeating the Islamic State. Here's a look at some of his recent statements. TRUMP: "Last year we lost $500 billion on trade with China. We can't let that happen." — comments at the White House on Friday. THE FACTS: That didn't happen. Last year, Americans bought about $506 billion in goods from China. That's not "lost" money but purchases of products that Americans wanted. And it's only part of the equation. China bought more than $130 billion in goods from the U.S. So the actual trade deficit in goods was $375 billion. Advertisement Factor in trade in services and the actual U.S trade deficit with China was $337 billion. ___ TRUMP: "On terrorism, in Iraq and Syria, we've taken back almost 100 percent, in a very short period of time, of the land that they took. And it all took place since our election. We've taken back close to 100 percent." — National Republican Congressional Committee dinner Tuesday. Comments Friday: "We've gotten just about 100 percent of our land back from ISIS." Advertisement THE FACTS: It's not true that progress against the Islamic State group "all took place" since the election. The Obama administration said IS had lost more than 40 percent of its territory by the time the last president left office. IS was pushed to the point of collapse in Mosul, its main Iraqi stronghold, before Trump took office. In 2016, Iraqi military forces, supported by the U.S.-led coalition, waged successful battles to oust IS from Fallujah, Ramadi, eastern Mosul and a number of smaller towns along the Tigris River. They also established logistical hubs for the push that began in February 2017 to retake western Mosul. It's true that advances since then have decimated IS as a territorial force. Those advances came on many fronts from multiple foes of the Islamic State, including U.S.-backed Iraqi forces and fighters of Syrian President Bashar Assad, supported by Russia.  The assertion that "we've taken back close to 100 percent" is only supportable if "we" means the various groups, often hostile to one another, that have been battling IS. ___ TRUMP, on Clinton: "I would say her last statement about women — they have to get approval from their husbands, their sons, and their male bosses to vote for Trump. That was not a good statement. Not good." — Republican dinner Tuesday. THE FACTS: That's not what she said. In remarks this month in India, Clinton advanced the theory that a slim majority of white women voted for Trump because of "ongoing pressure to vote the way that your husband, your boss, your son, whoever, believes you should." She did not say women felt they needed approval from men to vote for Trump — but rather that they faced pressure from them to side with Trump instead of her. ___ TRUMP: "Republicans also repealed one of the nation's cruelest and most unfair taxes ever: the Obamacare individual mandate. And the mandate is gone forever. And that's a beauty. You pay a lot of money not to have to pay and not to get health care. So you're paying not to have health care. I mean, that wasn't so good. But we got rid of it." — Republican dinner Tuesday. THE FACTS: The mandate is not gone. Fines for going without health insurance coverage are still in effect this year. They disappear next year under the repeal law he signed. Advertisement ___ TRUMP on a marketing campaign against opioid abuse: "That's the least expensive thing we can do, where you scare them from ending up like the people in the commercials. And we'll make them very, very bad commercials. We'll make them pretty unsavory situations." — speech in New Hampshire, March 19. THE FACTS: This "scared straight" advertising was neither inexpensive nor particularly effective the last time it was tried and researched. There is some evidence, though, that anti-drug messages focused on teenagers' need for independence can help discourage drug use.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Between 1998 and 2004, the U.S. government spent nearly $1 billion on a national campaign to persuade young people to avoid illegal drugs, particularly marijuana. A 2008 follow-up study funded by the National Institutes of Health found the campaign "had no favorable effects on youths' behavior" and may actually have prompted some to experiment with drugs — an unintended "boomerang" effect. ___ TRUMP: "Choice is coming. Choice — where the veterans can actually, instead of waiting on line for weeks and weeks and weeks, they can actually go and see a doctor and have it taken care of, and we pay. And that's going to be the big one." — Republican dinner Tuesday. THE FACTS: A long-term plan along these lines doesn't appear to be coming any time soon. It's stalled in Congress and delays experienced in the program so far mean it won't be fully implemented until 2019 or later. A choice program was put in place after a 2014 wait-time scandal that was discovered at the Phoenix VA hospital and elsewhere throughout the country. It allows veterans to go to private doctors if they endure long waits for VA appointments. According to the Government Accountability Office, Congress' investigative arm, people using the program suffer wait times potentially as long as 81 days. Last summer, an unexpected budget shortfall in the program forced VA to limit outside referrals, leading to additional delays in medical care. VA Secretary David Shulkin said last month VA care is "often 40 percent better in terms of wait times" compared with the private sector. He hoped a long-term overhaul would be approved by Congress in December, but proposals have stalled due to disagreements over cost and how much access veterans should have to private doctors. ___ DEMOCRATIC SEN. PATTY MURRAY, questioning VA Secretary David Shulkin:  "I was really concerned to see your budget asks for a large decrease in the Office of Inspector General ... . I want to know why this budget doesn't provide the OIG with the full funding that they need." — Senate hearing Wednesday on VA budget. Advertisement SHULKIN: "We are supportive of the role of the OIG as well. And in fact this budget actually does provide them the resources. ...They do have the staffing they need." — Senate hearing Wednesday. THE FACTS: Neither is entirely correct. The Trump administration's proposed budget would provide $172 million to VA's internal watchdog office for the budget year beginning Oct. 1. That's technically an increase from the administration's $159 million budget level in 2018, but a decline from the office's actual spending of roughly $174 million due to increased demands to investigate problems at VA. The inspector general's office used leftover money from previous years to fill the gap, cash that is now largely gone. To maintain current staffing levels, the IG's office is seeking $181 million for the next budget year, or $9 million above what the Trump administration is proposing. Without that money, it says it will have to cut the equivalent of 30 full-time staff positions, most of them directly involved with the IG's core criminal investigations, auditing and health inspections work. The IG office, with about 850 full-time staff, is charged with keeping watch over the government's second largest department, whose 360,000 employees provide medical care and other benefits to 9 million military veterans. In recent months, the watchdog has put out blistering reports concluding that Shulkin violated ethics rules during an 11-day trip to Europe and that systemic leadership problems at VA put patients at risk. Shulkin is now being investigated over allegations that he used his security detail to run personal errands for him; he has denied wrongdoing. ___ Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd ___ Associated Press writers Matthew Perrone, Bradley Klapper and Christopher Rugaber in Washington and Carla K. Johnson in Seattle contributed to this report. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By JOYCE LAUMARCH 26, 2018
 HONG KONG — This city’s creative scene has transformed in the decade since an annual art fair was introduced. Galleries, museums, design spaces and alternative fairs have cropped up, in some cases reviving abandoned complexes and industrial neighborhoods. Here’s a guide on where to see the best art in town — and, just as important in one of the world’s great food cities, what to eat while you’re there. [READ MORE: A Worldwide Focus on Hong Kong for Art Basel] WHAT TO SEE Art Central Hong Kong (through April 1), Art Basel’s rival fair, boasts over 100 galleries; about three-quarters of them are from the Asia-Pacific region, and 30 are first-time exhibitors. It has a younger, more local vibe than Art Basel, not least because it is in a giant circus tent on a fairgrounds. The Hong Kong curator Ying Kwok has chosen six large-scale projects for the fair, including Zhang Xiaodong’s “Dream of the Red Chamber” (2017), a work inspired by the classic Chinese novel of the same name, is a contemporary installation crafted from an ancient technique called accordion-dragon scale binding. Also look out for “Progress: The Game of Leaders” by the Singaporean artist Samantha Lo, which is built from giant Jenga blocks marked with terms like “stronger currency” and” “improved military.” Another work with a political edge is “Pavilion for Our Living” by the Hong Kong artists Sampson Wong and Lam Chi Fai, which simulates the micro-apartments where many poor residents live. WHAT TO EAT There is one formal restaurant on site at Art Central, Le Marché. But if the weather’s nice, most of the crowd heads to the picnic tables on The Terrace, for burgers, roast chicken, Thai barbecue, Vietnamese dishes and French crepes.  WHAT TO SEE Twenty-one sculptures were unveiled at public spaces across downtown in February, as part of the Harbor Arts Sculpture Park (until April 11). A majority of the large-scale installations are set in the expansive lawns of Tamar, just outside Art Central. On a recent Sunday afternoon, the park was crowded with art lovers, families, migrant workers on their day off and even newlyweds, all taking selfies with the new installations. Children ran excitedly around one of Yayoi Kusama’s big orange pumpkins, then treated Rasheed Araeen’s “Hong Kong Blues” and “Asteroids & Comets” by the Hong Kong artist Kacey Wong like jungle gyms. Advertisement WHAT TO EAT There are some food trucks in this area, which rotate among snacks like coconut-milk ice cream and Hong Kong-style dim sum. Advertisement WHAT TO SEE Located above a ferry pier across from Art Central is the Maritime Museum, a gem of a small, private museum that documents Hong Kong’s history as a port town. Children and adults will love the KM Koo Ship Bridge Simulator and the exhibit “Water in the Balance — A Journey” (until April 30). WHAT TO EAT: The museum’s Café 8 has a terrace with sweeping views of the skyline and Victoria Harbor. Staff members from the Nesbitt Center, which employs adults with learning disabilities, serve up homemade pies, cakes, salads, sandwiches and quiches. WHAT TO SEE Among the towers of power, three buildings are especially known for their art galleries: H Queen’s, the Pedder Building and 50 Connaught Road. The newly opened H Queen’s is essentially a luxury shopping mall for art, with spaces by David Zwirner, Galerie Ora-Ora, Seoul Auction and Tang Contemporary. New tenants opening around the time of Art Basel include Hauser & Wirth, Pace and Pearl Lam, the eccentric matriarch of the Hong Kong art scene. Ms. Lam also has another space at the elegant prewar Pedder Building, which is also home to Lehmann Maupin, Gagosian and Hanart TZ. On the first two floors of 50 Connaught Road is White Cube, which will be showing new sculptures by the British artist Antony Gormley until May 19. From White Cube, take the elevator up to the 17th floor for Emmanuel Perrotin’s gallery. WHAT TO EAT A downtown favorite is Duddell’s, which combines traditional Cantonese food, a fine terrace, an admirable art collection and a program of regular talks, exhibits and screenings. In March, Duddell’s will show “A Taste of the Masters II — Paintings from the M K Lau Collection.” Advertisement EAT WHAT YOU SEE Every year during Art Basel, the Mandarin Oriental pairs an exhibit with a special menu of food creations, inspired by the art. At the Mandarin Grill & Bar, the executive chef, Robin Zavou, will build dishes based on the works of Konstantin Bessmertny, a Soviet-born artist who has long lived and worked in Macau and Hong Kong. WHAT TO SEE The Mid-Levels Escalator is a marvel of urban infrastructure — the world’s longest outdoor pedestrian escalator, which travels a half-mile from Central, the business district, up through SoHo. Get off at the Hollywood Road or Staunton Street stops to wander the heart of the gallery district. WHAT TO EAT The best stop for food is Lyndhurst Terrace, where small shops sell Chinese pork dumplings and traditional Hong Kong egg tarts.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. WHAT TO SEE PMQ, a former Police Married Quarters from colonial days, has been transformed into a creative hub. PMQ’s previously decrepit residential complex now houses studios and boutiques run by nearly 100 local entrepreneurs, selling fashion, accessories, home goods and crafts. WHAT TO EAT Tucked behind the G.O.D. (Goods of Desire), a great shop for locally designed souvenirs, is SohoFama, which serves organic Chinese comfort food. WHAT TO SEE The Asia Art Archive is a hidden treasure for art history fans, who can browse a collection of 50,000 print and digital items, including catalogs, monographs, multimedia and periodicals. This quiet, sunny space, where you can sit by the window with a rare art book, offers a respite from bustling Hollywood Road. WHAT TO EAT There is an unusually good selection of international cuisines on the few streets around the archive. Dining hot spots include Upper Modern Bistro (contemporary French), Chachawan (Thai), 208 Duecento Otto (Italian) and Frantzen’s Kitchen (Nordic). WHAT TO SEE Wong Chuk Hang, an industrial area on the south side of Hong Kong Island, has become a hive of activity since 2016, when an expansion of the MTR subway system connected it to downtown. The Blindspot, de Sarthe and Art Projects galleries are all along Wong Chuk Hang Road, although hidden in upstairs space in three buildings. They are worth the hunt, as is Gallery Exit in neighboring Aberdeen. WHAT TO EAT For an old-school experience, sail to the Jumbo Kingdom Floating Restaurant, a neon-lit boat in Aberdeen serving fresh seafood and tourist favorites like Peking duck and cashew chicken. For something more modern, there are good bistros in Wong Chuk Hang. WHAT TO SEE The West Kowloon Cultural District, a multibillion-dollar government project, is still under construction, as is its centerpiece M+ museum. However, a waterfront park and the M+ Pavilion are already open. Until May, the M+ Pavilion will showcase local artist Samson Young’s “Songs for Disaster Relief World Tour,” an exhibit that had its debut at the 2017 Venice Biennale. Advertisement WHAT TO EAT Take a short (decidedly nonscenic) walk across a highway overpass to the city’s tallest bar and cafe on the 103rd floor of the Ritz-Carlton. From there on a clear day, you can see the dozens of construction cranes spread across West Kowloon, where a new Hong Kong art scene is being built from the ground up. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page S4, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By ALAN RAPPEPORT and JIM TANKERSLEYMARCH 26, 2018
 WASHINGTON — President Trump is on the verge of securing his first major trade deal, leveraging the threat of tariffs to gain concessions from South Korea on exports of steel and imports of American cars. The deal, which the White House could announce on Tuesday, would come at a moment of heightened tension on the Korean Peninsula as the Trump administration prepares to hold talks with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. Ties between Washington and Seoul had become strained over disagreements about trade, including Mr. Trump’s steel tariffs, and threatened to further complicate the already fraught discussions with North Korea. The finalization of a trade agreement with South Korea would hand Mr. Trump a victory in his “America First” approach to trade, in which he has threatened to take tough trade action unless other countries agree to concessions, including a reduction in the gap between what they export to the United States and what America exports to their shores. The blanket steel and aluminum tariffs announced by the White House earlier this month are the most recent example of that blunt approach, with the White House using exemptions and revisions as a carrot to avoid the tariff stick. “I think the strategy has worked, quite frankly,” Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, told Fox News in an interview on Sunday. “We announced the tariff. We said we were going to proceed. But, again, we said we’d simultaneously negotiate.” Advertisement “I think this is an absolute win-win,” he added, referring to the agreement with South Korea. The South Korean government announced the deal on Monday. Advertisement “It looks like we’re going to have a good result on that,” Peter Navarro, Mr. Trump’s trade adviser, said of the South Korea deal on CNBC on Monday. It remains to be seen whether the revised pact will be enough to satisfy lawmakers and industries that have been critical of South Korea’s trading practices. Among the biggest concerns have been access to its markets for American exports of automobiles and agricultural products. The reduction of trade deficits have been a priority for the United States; in 2016, it had a $17 billion trade deficit with South Korea. In a statement published on Monday, the South Korean Trade Ministry said it had agreed to adhere to a quota of 2.68 million tons of steel exports to the United States a year, which it said was roughly equivalent to 70 percent of its annual average sent to the United States from 2015 to 2017. It also agreed to lower trade barriers to vehicles imported from the United States. Trump administration officials cited what they considered unfair barriers against American-made cars when they began last year to pressure South Korea to amend the trade pact. In return, the Trade Ministry said, South Korea would be exempt from the steel tariffs. Under the deal, the number of vehicles the United States can export to South Korea without meeting local safety requirements would double to 50,000. Cars are a major reason for Seoul’s trade surplus with Washington. Brands like Hyundai and Kia have found ready markets in the United States, but the big American automakers have complained that restrictions keep them from trying to make the same headway in South Korean. The agreement is also expected to allow the United States to extend the tariffs that it imposes on Korean pickup trucks to 2041. The tariffs are currently scheduled to be phased out in 2021. Kim Hyun-chong, South Korea’s trade minister, told journalists on Monday, however, that there would be no further opening of his country’s agricultural markets, and no changes to tariffs that had already been lifted.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Trump administration suggested last week that the deal with South Korea was nearing completion as it unveiled the new tariffs targeting China. Advertisement Trade experts said that while the concessions were a win for the Trump administration, they would most likely do little to dent the trade deficit and that South Korea was probably happy to have the negotiations behind them after the United States briefly flirted with withdrawing from the pact. Washington and Seoul began negotiations in January on changes to the six-year-old trade agreement, one that Mr. Trump had previously called a “horrible deal.” “I’m happy that they can take this off the table as another trade policy irritant,” said Dan Ikenson, a trade expert at the Cato Institute who argued that the administration’s trade policies and focus on trade deficits are out of sync with economic reality. “This administration happens to believe, and it’s a fairy tale, that bilateral trade accounts matter.” Some labor groups and others who share Mr. Trump’s general frustration with America’s trade relationship with South Korea reacted coolly on Monday to the public details of the renegotiated deal, saying that the administration appeared to have achieved only modest progress and left some important issues out of the agreement. Several said the increased auto import numbers did not guarantee that automakers would be able to crack the Korean market, which is notoriously hostile to foreign cars. Others expressed cautious optimism. “As with all trade agreements, the details are important, so I want to see the specific concessions we secured from Korea — especially on steel,” said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio. He added that it was “good news” that Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, “appears to have taken steps to make the Korea agreement better for U.S. workers and auto companies while also getting the Koreans to limit their steel exports to the U.S.” Mr. Trump’s proposed tariffs — set in motion by a Commerce Department declaration that steel and aluminum imports posed a national security threat because they degraded the American industrial base — prompted  American allies and trading partners including Australia, the European Union and Japan, as well as South Korea, to jostle for exemptions. But the impact of the tariffs may not be as great as expected, since most of the biggest suppliers of foreign metals have been granted at least temporary exemptions. South Korea was the third-biggest exporter of steel to the United States in 2016, after Canada and the European Union. Mr. Lighthizer said last week that those three trading partners, along with Argentina, Australia and Brazil, would initially receive a reprieve from the tariffs. Mr. Trump pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact last year and said that he would focus on negotiating new bilateral deals with countries around the world. The steel tariffs are speeding up that process, and Mr. Mnuchin signaled on Sunday that more deals were on the way. “Where we’ve put a pause on tariffs, we’re negotiating,” he said. Prashant S. Rao contributed reporting from London, and Carlos Tejada from Hong Kong. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: South Korea, Looking to Avoid Tariffs, Agrees to U.S. Trade Deal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by Op-Ed Contributor By Kadri Liik LONDON — In the early spring of 2014, the world watched, astonished, as soldiers without insignia took over government buildings in Ukraine’s Crimea peninsula, surrounded Ukrainian military bases and installed new leaders in the region. President Vladimir Putin of Russia claimed at the time that these were not Russian soldiers. Instead, he said, these were “local self-defense units.” Less than a month later, Russia annexed Crimea. And a year after that, Mr. Putin admitted what everyone had suspected all along: Yes, Russian soldiers had been involved. That was when the term “plausible deniability” became a standard part of Western discussions about Russia. The practice of carrying out dubious deeds through the hands of proxies or other hard-to-identify agents has since become something of a trademark of Mr. Putin’s. Sometimes, the agents are indeed Kremlin actors in disguise, as they were in Crimea. But in the years since, Mr. Putin has pushed this tactic even further, implicitly or explicitly encouraging independent agents to act on their own, keeping the Kremlin’s hands clean. On many occasions, this has left the West a helpless bystander, unable to force Russia to account for its actions. But time may be running out on this tactic. The attempted murder of Sergei Skripal, a former Russian double agent who was found unresponsive in southwest England earlier this month, poisoned with a deadly nerve agent, may be the moment when “plausible deniability” has reached its limits. In fact, it now looks as if it is turning against its masters in the Kremlin. The United States’ decision on Monday, alongside Canada and a number of European countries, to expel Russians in retaliation for the poisoning makes clear to Moscow that its actions have consequences, whether it denies them or not. Since the annexation of Crimea, Russia has resorted to “plausible deniability” again and again. The interference in the American presidential elections was a classic case: Mr. Putin has repeatedly emphasized that Russia has not intervened “at the level of the government,” but he admits that some “patriotic hackers” or trolls with Russian citizenship might indeed have been active. The Russian president has also attempted to reap policy benefits from the denied action, steering the conversation toward his own priorities: accusing the United States of interfering in Russia and making the case for cooperating to regulate the internet and social media. This strategy isn’t an unmitigated success. In 2016, in a big embarrassment for Moscow, two Russian intelligence agents were indicted by Montenegro for plotting a coup that was supposed to take place under the cover of spontaneous anti-NATO protests. More tragic was the huge blunder of Russia’s proxies shooting down Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over eastern Ukraine in 2014. Moscow claims to this day that it had nothing to do with it, but it was nonetheless unable to escape reprimand from the international community. The problem is that “plausible deniability” empowers all sorts of activists and proxies. Sometimes, these people act under the Kremlin’s instructions; other times, they set out independently, trying to do what they think would please Mr. Putin. They cannot always be successfully controlled, and they may inadvertently commit blunders or cross lines that the Kremlin did not want to cross. In theory, Mr. Putin could disown them once they’ve made mistakes or been exposed, but this rarely happens. He values loyalty above almost all else and has no desire to punish people or groups he views as loyal, even if they misbehave. But the use of proxies has now started to hinder Russia’s ability to make coherent policy. Western concerns over Russia’s interference in domestic affairs — which are blown far out of proportion but are still rooted in the real activities of Russian trolls and hackers — means that even the most legitimate practices, such as Russia promoting its businesses abroad, are now viewed with suspicion. Russia’s foreign ministry isn’t happy about this situation and neither are Moscow’s business circles. But they cannot raise the issue with the Kremlin: Because these activities are being denied, they can’t be brought up in normal policy discussions. So it’s effectively impossible for the different Russian institutions to come together and discuss what the country as a whole wins or loses by engaging in such actions. The attempted murder of Mr. Skripal has made the situation even worse. Many aspects of this case remain puzzling: It is hard to understand why the Kremlin would want to escalate tensions with the West so intensely right now. This escalation is drastically limiting Russia’s foreign policy options, and Mr. Putin likes to have multiple options on table. It is true that Mr. Putin doesn’t tolerate traitors, but exchanged spies like Mr. Skripal have traditionally been immune. Why would Moscow want to change those Cold War-era rules of spy swaps, rules from which Russia also benefits? It’s also doubtful that the attempted murder would be motivated by domestic Russian politics. The crime happened too late to feed into the elections, and it wasn’t employed in the campaign. A more logical explanation is that an assassination attempt was carried out by some powerful actors outside the Kremlin — perhaps sanctioned in broad terms but not specifically. But even that raises many questions: Why leave such a clear “signature” — a nerve agent produced only in the former Soviet Union? Was it actually a message? If so, from whom and to whom? Ultimately, none of this really matters at this point. “Patriotic hackers” or “patriotic trolls” can act independently, but if someone walks around using a military-grade nerve agent developed by Russia, that becomes a problem for Moscow, regardless of the circumstances of the case or the identity of the people involved. Even if the attack against Mr. Skripal was a “terrorist attack,” as the Russian foreign ministry improbably suggested, everyone’s eyes would still turn to Russia since it is the only known producer of the substance. And Moscow’s track record with “plausible deniability” — from Ukraine to the United States — makes things worse. The world does not yet know the full details of the Skripal poisoning, but it does not feel like waiting, as the expulsions make clear. Too often in the past, Moscow has denied its involvement in cases that later end up being traced to the Kremlin or its proxies. The result is that its denials lack credibility. Now, the successful use of “plausible deniability” in all the previous cases collides with the Kremlin’s current interests and contributes to the verdict: guilty until proven innocent. This article has been updated to reflect news developments. Kadri Liik (@KadriLiik) is a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations and the former director of the International Center for Defense Studies in Estonia. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:56 P.M. E.D.T.
 NEW YORK —  A'ja Wilson is now part of an elite women's basketball group. South Carolina's senior center became the seventh player Monday ever to earn Associated Press All-America team honors three times. She was a unanimous choice from the 32-member national media panel that votes on the AP Top 25 each week. Wilson was joined on the All-America team by UConn's Katie Lou Samuelson, Oregon's Sabrina Ionescu, Louisville's Asia Durr and Mississippi State's Victoria Vivians. Voting was done before the NCAA Tournament. Wilson is the seventh player to be a three-time All-American. Baylor's Brittney Griner, Tennessee's Chamique Holdsclaw, Duke's Alana Beard, Oklahoma's Courtney Paris and UConn's Breanna Stewart and Maya Moore are the only other players to earn first-team honors at least three times. Paris and Moore were All-Americans all four years. "Those six others to be listed with them is amazing," Wilson said . "To be in that list of names, so now with years to come when young girls are growing up and they want this and see my name in that name book it's something special. Something I dreamed of, but never would have imagined." Wilson averaged 22.6 points, 11.8 rebounds and 3.2 blocks this season for the Gamecocks and has them in the regional finals Monday night, a year after winning the school's first national championship. Advertisement She'll face Samuelson and UConn on Monday night. Samuelson earned All-America honors for the second consecutive season averaging 17.9 points, shooting 44 percent from behind the arc. Coach Geno Auriemma has been impressed how the junior forward has been able to improve aspects of her game every season. Advertisement "The thing about Lou is that she's been able to, each and every year add something to her game," he said. "When you do as many things well as she does, it's not so much the numbers it's how she just breaks games wide open with 3s and she's one of the best passers on our team and one of the best ball handlers on our team. So, I'm not surprised that she would be recognized as an All-American." Durr, Vivians and Ionescu were all honored for the first time. Louisville's star guard averaged nearly 19 points a game and usually saved her best moments for the biggest games to help the Cardinals win the ACC regular season and conference tournaments. She also helped Louisville reach the Final Four this year where they will face Mississippi State. "She's played well on a big stage and I've been very impressed with that," Louisville coach Jeff Walz said. "She's such a hard worker. First in the gym, last one out of the gym. She wants to be great and always challenges herself." Vivians came to Mississippi State as a scorer, but was far from being a complete player. Now she's much more multi-faceted and has been a key reason that the Bulldogs only lost once this season. "It's kind of shocked me how I'm playing now," Vivians said. "I'm liking it. Just having great shot selection, getting the ball to my teammates, playing defense and rebounding. Just doing everything — not being one-dimensional." Vivians averaged 19.6 points and 6.0 rebounds for the Bulldogs and is the second player from the school to be honored as an All-American, joining LaToya Thomas — who did it in 2002 and 2003. Only a sophomore, Ionescu has already etched her name in the NCAA record books with 10 triple-doubles. She has led Oregon to one of the best seasons in school history averaging 19.4 points, 7.8 assists and 6.6 rebounds. She's the first Duck to earn first-team All-America honors. Advertisement "I think Sabrina is just a phenomenal player, just phenomenal. So difficult to guard," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "I've never seen a player, especially so young, already got the record for triple-doubles, but the assists is what's so impressive to me. I've had some pretty good point guards, some good guards, but to look at the number of assists she has, really it's a challenge to figure out how to defend them." The second team consisted of Baylor's Kalani Brown, Ohio State's Kelsey Mitchell, UConn's Gabby Williams, Iowa's Megan Gustafson and Notre Dame's Arike Ogunbowale. UConn's Napheesa Collier headlined the third team. She was joined by Mississippi State's Teaira McCowan, UCLA's Jordin Canada, Duke's Lexie Brown and Louisville's Myisha Hines-Allen. Wilson, Mitchell, Samuelson, Collier and Williams made up the preseason All-America team. ___ 2018 WOMEN'S AP ALL-AMERICA TEAM LIST Statistics are through March 15 First Team A'ja Wilson, South Carolina, 6-5, senior, Hopkins, S.C., 22.6 ppg, 11.8 rpg, 55.0 fg pct, 3.2 blocks (32 first-place votes, 160 points)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Katie Lou Samuelson, UConn, 6-3, junior, Huntington Beach, Calif., 17.9 ppg, 4.4 rpg, 3.7 apg, 53.1 fg pct, 46.2 3pt fg pct, 83.8 ft pct, 1.3 steals (30, 156) Sabrina Ionescu, Oregon, 5-11, sophomore, Walnut Creek, Calif., 19.4 ppg, 6.6 rpg, 7.8 apg, 43.7 3pt fg pct, 1.6 steals (21, 134) Asia Durr, Louisville, 5-10, junior, Douglasville, Ga., 18.8 ppg, 3.0 rpg, 2.1 apg, 42.5 3pt fg pct, 1.0 steals (19, 124) Victoria Vivians, Mississippi State, 6-1, senior, Carthage, Miss., 19.6 ppg, 6.0 rpg, 1.5 steals (20, 123) Advertisement Second Team Kalani Brown, Baylor, 6-7, junior, Slidell, La., 20.2 ppg, 10.1 rpg, 66.3 fg pct, 1.2 blocks (13, 118) Kelsey Mitchell, Ohio State, 5-8, senior, Cincinnati, 24.5 ppg, 3.2 rpg, 4.2 apg, 40.8 3pt fg pct, 1.5 steals (7, 108) Gabby Williams, UConn, 5-11, senior, Sparks, Nev., 10.6 ppg, 7.5 rpg, 5.2 apg, 59.1 fg pct, 2.6 steals (8, 103) Megan Gustafson, Iowa, 6-3, junior, Port Wing, Wis., 25.6 ppg, 12.7 rpg, 66.8 fg pct, 2.1 blocks (7, 74) Arike Ogunbowale, Notre Dame, 5-8, junior, Milwaukee, 20.2 ppg, 5.4 rpg, 2.8 apg, 1.6 steals (1, 74) Third Team Napheesa Collier, UConn, 6-1, junior, O'Fallon, Mo., 15.4 ppg, 7.5 rpg, 3.2 apg, 56.5 fg pct, 1.7 steals (1, 59) Teaira McCowan, Mississippi State, 6-7, junior, Brenham, Texas, 17.7 ppg, 13.2 rpg, 60.2 fg pct, 2.0 blocks (1, 42) Jordin Canada, UCLA, 5-6, senior, Los Angeles, 16.8 ppg, 3.5 rpg, 6.9 apg, 3.2 steals (0, 41) Lexie Brown, Duke, 5-9, senior, Suwanee, Ga., 20.1 ppg, 4.5 rpg, 4.4 apg, 3.5 steals (0, 15) Advertisement Myisha Hines-Allen, Louisville, 6-2, senior, Montclair, N.J., 13.9 ppg, 9.8 rpg, 2.1 apg, 53.1 fg pct, 1.1 steals (0, 15) Honorable Mention (alphabetical order) Ariel Atkins, Texas; Kenisha Bell, Minnesota; Tashia Brown, Western Kentucky; Natalie Butler, George Mason; Bridget Carleton, Iowa State; Chennedy Carter, Texas A&M; Lauren Cox, Baylor; Sophie Cunningham, Missouri; Katelynn Flaherty, Michigan; Loryn Goodwin, Oklahoma State; Marie Gulich, Oregon State; Ruthy Hebard, Oregon; Kaylee Jensen, Oklahoma State; Maria Jespersen, South Florida; Brooke McCarty, Texas; Brittany McPhee, Stanford; Tinara Moore, Central Michigan; Teana Muldrow, West Virginia; Kia Nurse, UConn; Jaime Nared, Tennessee; Shakayla Thomas, Florida State; Morgan William, Mississippi State; Imani Wright, Florida State. ___ AP Sports Writers David Brandt, Tim Booth and Pat Eaton-Robb contributed to this report. ___ Here's a link to the All-America team: https://collegebasketball.ap.org/ap-womens-all-america-team-breakdown ___ We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By TED LOOSMARCH 26, 2018
 When the art fair Art Basel Hong Kong rolls into town for its sixth presentation from March 29 to March 31, about 248 galleries will be showing their wares in a marketplace that has been expertly primed for selling art. Among the most business-focused cities in Asia and certainly the most Western, Hong Kong has had outlets of the international auction houses for decades, and, although 20 years past its days as a British colony, it now enjoys special status from the Chinese government to encourage commerce. But it has had a major art fair only since 2008. Art Basel, which takes places at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center, took over the fair Art HK and has, for the past five years, steadily turned it into a destination for international collectors hungry for paintings, sculptures, videos and installations of all stripes. [READ MORE: What’s Trending at Art Basel Hong Kong] The dealer Pearl Lam — who will be showing works by Liu Wentao, Huang Yuanqing, Robert Motherwell and others in her booth at the fair — has seen a huge transformation in the Asian collecting landscape. Few people have a more global view of the market as a whole: She has galleries in Singapore, Shanghai and Hong Kong. Advertisement “At first I said, it’s impossible for Hong Kong to have an art fair,” said Ms. Lam, a native of the city. “But in 2008, it really changed.” The global axiom holds true: If dealers think they can sell a lot of art, they will show up pretty much anywhere, and the booming Asian economy makes the region attractive. Advertisement “What continues to mark this fair is the influx of great galleries coming in from all over the world — especially the Western world,” said Marc Spiegler, the global director of Art Basel. “It reflects the potential they see.” He cited two new entries this year: Tanya Bonakdar and Friedrich Petzel, both New York dealers. In fact, there is more demand than supply in terms of booth space in the convention center. “For the last several years, because the fair is so potentially attractive to galleries, we’ve limited ourselves to half of the total slots for those that are only active in the West,” Mr. Spiegler said, part of an effort to keep some Asian character to the fair. They are keeping strict accounts: Of the 28 new galleries this year, 14 have exhibition spaces somewhere in Asia. For American and European galleries that want to be admitted, Mr. Spiegler even assigns homework. “For an established gallery from the West, the beauty and the terror of this fair is that’s it’s a meritocracy,” he said, and not just during the fair. “You need a strategy. In order to succeed, you will have to put time in and designate someone to show face in person, since that’s important in Asia.” Mr. Spiegler said that such conversations put him in a surprising position at times: “There are galleries we’d love to have, but once we speak we realize they have work to do before their first appearance. It’s a surreal experience for a fair director to caution big galleries from entering a fair, but it’s the responsible thing to do.” Some of the biggest international galleries have already set down roots in Hong Kong, and one building in particular has proved alluring: the art-focused, 24-story development H Queen’s. So far the tenants that have either opened space or plan to soon include the heavy hitters Pace, Hauser & Wirth, and David Zwirner. It’s also Ms. Lam’s Hong Kong outpost. Advertisement “It’s added a new layer of excitement to the Hong Kong art scene,” said Leo Xu, the director of David Zwirner’s gallery there. “The building is a vertical Chelsea.” At the fair, Zwirner will show five recent works by Jeff Koons. The concurrent show in the gallery’s space at H Queen’s features the German photographer Wolfgang Tillmans. And the idea is that the exhibitions bolster each other: “People at the fair can get a taste of the gallery program,” said Mr. Xu, who formerly had his own gallery in Shanghai. [READ MORE: Where to Play (and Eat) in Hong Kong] H Queen’s is only one facet of the steadily growing Hong Kong art scene. Parts of it have benefited from governmental largess, in particular the West Kowloon Cultural District. The scheduled 2019 debut of M+, a major new art center, is also expected to up the ante. The city’s top dealers all want Hong Kong to have strong, leading voices from the noncommercial sphere — they know that a healthy art ecosystem always features that element, with New York and London as prime examples. “We’re hoping that when M+ opens, they will step up and become that voice,” Ms. Lam said. Although they both try to target some of the same collectors, the auction houses have welcomed other players. “Between fairs and auctions, I see positive energy,” said Rebecca Wei, the president of Christie’s Asia, who is based in Hong Kong and attends the fair on multiple days. Diversity of business models helps. Ms. Wei pointed out the difference in approaches from the opening price: “In auctions, you hammer up, and at fairs, you bargain down.” The auction house view is that anything that gets a person to buy art for the first time is good. “Last year, one-third of buyers globally were new to Christie’s,” Ms. Wei said. “And 22 percent of them were from Asia.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And the fair, with its focus on cutting-edge artists, brings new blood to the spring and fall contemporary art auctions. “They have introduced so many artist names to Asia,” Ms. Wei said. “It’s only four days, but it’s a vast show. They bring a huge supply to Hong Kong.” Advertisement The global nature of the art world means that a Mexico City-based gallery featuring a renowned Mexican artist is not out of place at an art fair in Hong Kong. The Kurimanzutto gallery will fill its booth with works by Gabriel Orozco, who has had his own solo exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The gallery made its debut at Art Basel Hong Kong last year. “We were quite impressed by the response from collectors,” said Mónica Manzutto, the co-founder. “We managed to find great contacts.” Mr. Orozco is a relatively known quantity among Asian institutions, and is featured in the collection of Tokyo’s Museum of Contemporary Art, among others. He has also been living in the region for the past several years, first in Tokyo and now in Bali. “He tries to understand the specifics of the place he’s living,” Ms. Manzutto said. “We thought collectors from the region would want to see how that has impacted his art.” She said that two of the limestone sculptures in the booth, “Dé Orbital” and “Dé Fleur,” both from 2018, demonstrate how Mr. Orozco has learned from Balinese carving techniques. Taking a wider view, Mr. Spiegler pointed out that the idea of talking about Asia as a single market is somewhat absurd, given its geographical vastness and the number of countries and cultures it includes. Ms. Lam said that for her money, South Korea — about 2,000 miles away — is actually the continent’s most sophisticated art market. But in the eyes of dealers and fair organizers, that means only that there’s room to grow. “We claim a certain degree of credit,” Mr. Spiegler said. “This show not only builds a bridge between East and West, it builds them between different markets in Asia.” He added, “For Australians, the idea of a great art fair only eight hours away was a godsend.” A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By TED LOOSMARCH 26, 2018
 The art collector J. Tomilson Hill announced two years ago that he was establishing the Hill Art Foundation and planning an exhibition space in the Chelsea section of Manhattan, which is set to open this fall. But in the meantime, Mr. Hill — a New York billionaire who serves as vice chairman of the Blackstone Group, running its hedge fund businesses — is offering a warm-up act of sorts in Hong Kong, in the new art-focused development H Queen’s. “Christopher Wool: Highlights From the Hill Art Collection,” featuring 15 works, will be on view there from March 27 to April 8, overlapping with the art fair Art Basel Hong Kong. The show moves to the foundation’s New York space in September. Mr. Hill, 70, is on the board of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Friends of the High Line. He and his wife, Janine, have spent decades amassing a collection of hundreds of works that includes postwar masterpieces by a dozen artists and Renaissance bronzes. Lately, the focus has been on contemporary art, particularly by American women artists and Chinese makers. Advertisement Chummily businesslike, with a polished spiel about his love of art, Mr. Hill talked about his inspirations and approaches in the Blackstone offices last month. (This interview has been edited and condensed.) Advertisement   Why is  this a good show  for Hong Kong? I said, “Where is there a market that doesn’t really understand Christopher Wool?” It’s Hong Kong. They think all Christopher Wool did was essentially word paintings. Well, guess what? He did those in the late ’80s and ’90s, but he’s an abstract artist and has been since Day 1. [READ MORE: A Worldwide Focus on Hong Kong for Art Basel] You’ll be on hand for the fair. What’s your experience of Art Basel Hong Kong so far? I went about five years ago. I was really impressed with the cross-section of people from all over Asia and the quality of the collectors. Plus, every museum director that I know goes. I don’t usually go to fairs, because everyone knows the artists that I collect. So, if there’s a Francis Bacon on the market, or there’s a Cy Twombly on the market, or there’s a Wool on the market, I get a call from the dealer. What will you do after the fair? My daughter Astrid and I are going to go to Beijing. We’re going to go to the studios of these artists that we’ve collected, including Liu Wei, who shows at Lehmann Maupin gallery. What’s the attraction of Chinese art now? We collect about 15 of them. Let’s go back to the different collections that we have, which is Renaissance bronzes, old master paintings, a dozen post-World War II artists, and now emerging artists. They all have one thing in common: At the moment that the art was created, the country of origin was going through a massive series of changes. China, in my mind, is going through the same thing now. And so I said, “I want to be educated.” I know that you lent to the Frick Collection for a show that mixed your Renaissance bronzes with some of your contemporary highlights. Why?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. What attracts young people today is contemporary art. I got Jeff Koons to give a talk on how the Renaissance, particularly bronzes, influenced his art. I got Ed Ruscha to come and give a talk about how the Renaissance had influenced his drawings. Some 75,000 people came to that show, but the average age was much younger than the typical Frick audience. I like to connect the dots between art from different centuries and different disciplines. Is there an area you’ve thought about but decided against collecting? I wanted to collect Greek and Roman. But I am also risk-averse, and I didn’t want to go to jail. You had all of this great material that was being taken from Turkey, taken from Italy, and put on the market without proper provenance. So, if you’re risk-averse, you can’t buy it. Advertisement  What are the connections between being successful in business and being successful in collecting? That’s a really good question. First, it all starts with research. The discipline of actually doing the research is the same in both fields. And you can’t start down the path of putting a collection together unless you know first, who you are, because you’ve got to really like it, and you’ve got to know what your taste is. Second, you’ve got to know the artist. You’ve got to read everything you can about the artist. Then you’ve got to know what’s the difference between a good work and a great work, and that takes study and connoisseurship. So what was the first big piece you bought? An Andy Warhol soup can from 1962. It was in the mid-90s, at a Christie’s auction. I saw it and said, “This is really great.” I knew Andy a bit back in the late 1960s, when I was at Harvard and he was hanging around there. So back in the ’90s, nobody really understood how great Warhol was. And you could buy it for half a million bucks. Now we have 12 Warhols. I think Andy is actually an even more important artist than Picasso, and you know why? Every artist post-1962 has Warhol on his brain. If Andy were living today, he would fit right in with texting and Instagram. Were you exposed to art as a kid? I got lucky because I had a mother who would take me to museums. My father was interested, too. I think about who influenced my life, and my mom, who was an artist, influenced my life. She did sculpture, worked in bronze, worked in clay. She would work every day — in her 90s she would go to her studio. That must dovetail with your interest in living artists. What is enjoyable about knowing them personally? Because I can have a conversation with them. I was emailing Christopher Wool this morning. I can ask Christopher, “What are you thinking about in these new sculptures?” Invariably, I learn about how they’re thinking about the art. An earlier version of this article, relying on information from a publicist, misstated the number of works in the exhibition “Christopher Wool: Highlights From the Hill Art Collection.” It is 15, not 13. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By AUSTIN RAMZYMARCH 26, 2018
 HONG KONG — For eight years in a row, an international survey of nearly 300 cities has named Hong Kong the world’s least affordable housing market. It is not hard to see why. Located on a group of hilly islands and a corner of the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong has always been short of places to build. The government’s reliance on land sales for revenue creates an incentive to keep prices high. Money pouring in from mainland Chinese investors pushes them even higher. The extremes can be staggering. A single parking spot sold for $664,000 last year. Apartments only slightly bigger, and in much less desirable parts of town, go for more than $380,000. Living spaces have shrunk so much that a new term has emerged: “nano flat,” for apartments measuring around 200 square feet or less. Many Hong Kongers have been priced out of the housing market, including young people forced to live with their parents. Their discontent is said to have contributed to recent street protests like the 2014 Umbrella Movement. Advertisement A government task force is considering a wide range of options for making better use of available land. Architects and developers have also put forward some novel proposals, ranging from the quirky to the audacious. While some of the ideas may be repackaged versions of the cramped spaces the city has long known, others could reshape the future of housing in Hong Kong. Here are some of the ideas: The architect James Law was at a construction site in town when he noticed some concrete pipes left over from an infrastructure project. They were large enough to walk in, cool in the summer and surprisingly nicely finished. Advertisement “I had a eureka moment,” he said. So he spent about a month designing and building the OPod, two sections of concrete drainpipe joined to create a living space of about 100 square feet. It includes a couch and foldout bed, a desk, shelving, a tiny kitchenette, a hanging closet and a shower. The pods can be stacked up to five high, or placed in small, unused spaces between buildings and under bridges. A prototype is now on display in a waterfront park, but there are no plans yet for commercial production. “It is not a complete solution to what is a very complex problem,” Mr. Law said. “But it is a fun, design-oriented way to stimulate debate and even, on a small scale, create model projects.” One idea is already a reality, in a pair of 50-year-old buildings with distinctive blue, gray and green geometric patterns. The buildings stand on a street lined with shops selling power tools and industrial fans. Such tenements, known as tong lau, were common here in Hong Kong before high-rises. Synergy Biz Group, a local architecture and development company, has recycled them into communal living spaces with some modern touches. Called Bibliotheque, the buildings feature slickly designed dormitory-like living spaces with shared kitchens and bathrooms. The rooms are tiny, with about 50 square feet per single unit, and cost from about $450 to $750 a month. The residents are mostly young, drawn by rents that are low by Hong Kong standards. Jo Chow, a 33-year-old office administrator who lives in one of the spaces, said she pays half of what she did for an apartment in a more distant corner of Hong Kong. Advertisement “For me, I just need a flat in a convenient location,” she said. “I don’t need a big place to live right now.” Some people have criticized these spaces as new takes on Hong Kong’s infamous “coffin homes,” apartments that have been subdivided into tiny spaces, and questioned the appeal of such cramped, communal arrangements. “They may save on the cost of rent,” said Yip Ngai-ming, a professor of public policy at City University of Hong Kong. “But whether it will work, I don’t know.” But Keith Wong, the director of Synergy, argued that group living provided security and a sense of community. He said the company wanted to add more buildings and to work with landlords to convert individual apartments. Half a century ago, when refugees poured into Hong Kong to escape turmoil in mainland China, the city started a public housing program that provides residences, usually in high-rises, for nearly half of the population today. The architect and professor David Erdman has suggested fitting in more people in those same buildings by going even higher, adding cornices of from 5 to 25 stories atop the existing structures, which are already often about 40 stories tall already. The idea was inspired by discussions with former colleagues at the University of Hong Kong about fitting additional housing in the spaces between public housing blocks. Building upward instead would offer the same result without harming existing amenities, said Mr. Erdman, now chairman of Graduate Architecture and Urban Design at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. His students have produced dramatic designs that would transform the drab and repetitive look of Hong Kong’s public housing complexes. “I would love to see one built,” Mr. Erdman said. Advertisement Perhaps the most unconventional idea calls for putting people on cruise liners. The floating community would not be a permanent solution but is instead the first step in a proposal from Doctoral Exchange, a local research group. The second step of the plan is even more ambitious: building several large artificial islands in the sea to the south of Hong Kong. The new, 45-square-mile archipelago would fall outside Hong Kong’s boundaries, meaning it would require backing from China’s central government. Island building on such a scale would likely face opposition over potential environmental damage. But China would have at least one advantage in such a project, said Francis Neoton Cheung of Doctoral Exchange. It could use the same reclamation technology that it is currently developing in the South China Sea to build military strongholds on what were once sunken reefs, he said. “I know it’s a bit daring, but it might be the solution,” he said. “If circumstances allow.” Hong Kong’s container port is the world’s fifth-largest by volume. It also sits on an iconic part of the waterfront that the government task force is now looking at to ease the land shortage. Hundreds of thousands of people could live on the port’s 900 acres. One proposal calls for relocating the port to make way for housing. Another calls for keeping the port where it is, while constructing huge platforms above its bustling waterfront cranes on which residential skyscrapers could then be built. Officials call this idea feasible, and the port operator says it is open to the idea, but the cost and levels of public support are still unknown. Like other more ambitious ideas for new housing, the port-topping towers might never be built. But the idea of redeveloping ports isn’t so unusual. One of Hong Kong’s first large-scale private housing developments, Taikoo Shing, was built on the site of Swire Company’s dockyards. Follow Austin Ramzy on Twitter: @austinramzy. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Making Room for Homes In a Tightly Packed City.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
From the Fisher Building to Belle Isle (and beyond), the works of the renowned Albert Kahn endure. Here’s how to see them. 
Pursuits  By                     
JOHN L. DORMAN

MARCH 26, 2018
 On a recent trip to Detroit, I did the one thing that I would never attempt in New York: I stood on a busy sidewalk and looked up at a skyscraper. The skyscraper was the First National Building, an attractive 26-story Neoclassical limestone structure near Campus Martius Park in downtown Detroit. To the outside world, Detroit is known less for its architecture than for its revitalization efforts, which are spreading farther into the city from the downtown core. But as someone who likes to dig a bit deeper, I put the building’s address into my phone to see what would appear. Names like Cadillac Place and the General Motors Research Laboratory appeared in my search results, and I sought out the connection. For much of the early 20th century, Michigan was the industrial capital of the United States. The development of the Ford Model T, regarded as the first affordable automobile, and the images of men building cars on moving assembly lines captured the public imagination. As the automotive industry transformed Detroit’s economy, the city’s population grew, increasing from roughly 285,000 residents in 1900 to more than 1.6 million residents by 1940. During these decades, ornate office buildings, regal academic buildings and grand manors sprouted across the city and the region, largely because of the ingenuity of Albert Kahn. Kahn, frequently referred to as “the architect of Detroit,” designed between 400 and 900 buildings in Detroit, including the First National Building. A few of the buildings have been demolished, an unfortunate reality of redevelopment, and pronounced urban decay. But scores of Kahn’s architectural beacons, including the Art Deco Fisher Building in the New Center neighborhood of Detroit and Belle Isle Aquarium, continue to captivate the public, generations after they opened. Advertisement Albert Kahn was born into a Jewish family in 1869 in Germany. He immigrated to the United States in 1880, settling in Detroit. Kahn worked a string of odd jobs to help support his parents and seven siblings, ultimately landing a position as a draftsman at the office of the architect George D. Mason, despite only having a seventh-grade education. “Kahn is one of the last generation of apprentice architects who just came up by working in an office,” said Michael H. Hodges, a fine arts writer at The Detroit News and the author of the coming book “Building the Modern World: Albert Kahn in Detroit. “Mason really took a shine to him and saw his intelligence, ambition and hard work.” In 1891, Kahn won a scholarship to study abroad, traveling across Europe and sketching architectural details alongside Henry Bacon, who would go on to design the Lincoln Memorial in Washington. The experience was a defining event in Kahn’s professional life, along with the founding of his own firm, Albert Kahn Associates, in 1895. Kahn designed nearly 2,000 buildings around the world during his career (he died in 1942). Advertisement Now, after decades of relative anonymity in architectural conversations, Kahn’s outsize influence is again in the spotlight. Claire Zimmerman, an associate professor of architecture and art history at the University of Michigan, who is working on a book about Kahn, said that he was different than high-profile contemporaries like Frank Lloyd Wright. “Kahn is striking for the fact that he’s so low-key and his immense talents were hidden behind a quite conventional persona,” she said. “I think that’s true of the buildings as well. The buildings are conventional-looking and that tends to throw you off the scent in terms of their innovation and modernity.” Much of Kahn’s legacy is on display in Michigan, from the old banking corridors in downtown Detroit to the lavish architecture in suburban Grosse Pointe Shores to the collegiate landscape of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. I wanted to see how Kahn revolutionized architecture and had an enduring impact on design, and so I devised my own tour of some of Kahn’s most significant works. Mack Avenue is a major thoroughfare that runs northeast from Midtown Detroit and gradually approaches the tony suburb of Grosse Pointe. It is an area of deep contrasts. One side of Mack features neighborhoods on the East Side of Detroit, many of which have fared slightly better than large swaths of the city, but whose fortunes have yet to recover from years of economic decline. On the other side of Mack Avenue is Grosse Pointe, which is surrounded by four cities: Grosse Pointe Farms, Grosse Pointe Park, Grosse Pointe Shores and Grosse Pointe Woods. When it was first developed, the Grosse Pointe area was the epitome of upper-crust Detroit society, with Tudor Revival and classic American Colonial architecture. It is still decidedly affluent, boasting an abundance of quiet, leafy streets with English names like Kensington and Yorkshire. Closer to Lake St. Clair, posh estates dot the shoreline. At the northern end of Grosse Pointe Shores is the Edsel and Eleanor Ford House, completed in 1929. The grounds, designed by the famed Danish-American landscape architect Jens Jensen, feature a picturesque island bird sanctuary, lagoon and gardens. Edsel and Eleanor Ford raised their four children in the elaborate home, built in the English Cotswold style. Edsel Ford, the only child of the auto baron Henry Ford, and the president of the Ford Motor Company from 1919 to 1943, became so fond of the architecture of the Cotswolds when he visited England that he planned the construction of his home in this style. For the design, Ford turned to his close friend Kahn, whom his father had worked with for years, beginning with the Highland Park Ford Plant. Advertisement The home is fronted by sandstone and has a slate roof, with stone shingles. Prominent chimneys, a hallmark of the Cotswold style, rise around the house without overshadowing the graceful nature of the home. When I stepped inside the foyer, I was taken by the beautiful, wide oak staircase at my side. The décor in many of the rooms is traditional. The Art Deco rooms on the second floor are filled with curvy furniture and leather wall panels. The Ford House is the kind of grand property that could have fallen into the trap of being too big for its own good, but it radiates class. Many well-known paintings, including Paul Cézanne’s “Bouilloire et Fruits,” line the walls of the Ford House. (He was also on the board of trustees at the Detroit Institute of Arts and funded the renowned Detroit Industry murals, a collection of frescoes by the Mexican painter and muralist Diego Rivera from 1932 to 1933 that depicted the workers who defined Detroit’s manufacturing and labor at the time.) I wandered through a courtyard and onto a small path that overlooked Lake St. Clair. In the distance was a Great Lakes freighter. I walked around the rest of the property, which includes a pool house, power house, lodge and a playhouse with miniature furniture that was built in 1930 for Edsel Ford’s then 7-year-old daughter, Josephine Clay Ford. After seeing the Ford House, I wanted to get a sense of how Kahn designed some of his more prominent public buildings. 10 MILES Edsel & Eleanor Ford House 96 Grosse Pointe michigan Detroit 275 Ann Arbor MICHIGAN new center Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory/ Belle Isle Aquarium Albert Kahn Building Fisher Building Detroit R. Cadillac Place belle  isle A. Alfred Taubman Center For Design Education canada Detroit 94 Maccabees Building michigan midtown 75 Albert Kahn House e. huron st.  Burton Memorial Tower S. state st. Detroit Athletic Club Hill Auditorium National Theater downtown Kraus Building First National Building Ann Arbor Angell Hall The Qube MARCH 26, 2018
 I headed to Belle Isle, a 982-acre island park in the Detroit River. As I navigated the wide streets, a greenhouse-style building came into view — one of Kahn’s more subtle public spaces. “What stands out with Albert Kahn is his idea of how the riverfront should be used,” said Ryan Patrick Hooper, a journalist at WDET-FM in Detroit, who also gives tours of the Kahn-designed Fisher Building through Pure Detroit, a company and store that sells Detroit-branded merchandise. “He was thinking about altruistic public spaces at a time when there was an industrial-choking waterfront, which was decades ahead of his time.” Advertisement The compact Belle Isle Aquarium opened in 1904 and is one of the oldest aquariums in the country. The Beaux-Arts-style front entrance, featuring dolphins and the seal of Detroit carved in stone, is alluring — but it’s the interior that really reveals Kahn’s breadth of design. The sleek green opaline glass tiles that form the vaulted ceiling give the sensation that you’re in a distant underwater universe. (Fish include speckled damselfish, cichlid, frontosa and smallmouth bass.) The Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory next door, with a greenhouse and botanical garden, is modeled after the long-gone Crystal Palace, the cast-iron and glass space that housed the Great Exhibition of 1851, and the Palm House at Kew Gardens, both in London. Plants that are prevalent in warmer climates, such as the white-haired opuntia of Mexico and the crassula of South Africa, are featured attractions, and the conservatory’s high dome offers a sense of possibility, as if you could climb the tall palm trees inside and see for miles. Back in downtown Detroit, I walked near the First National Building again, glancing across Woodward Avenue, one of the most prominent thoroughfares in the region and the spinal cord of the almost year-old QLine streetcar. The Qube, a modernist 14-story building that was designed and built by Albert Kahn Associates and now serves as an operations center for Quicken Loans, caught my eye. Even though Kahn didn’t personally design this building (it opened well after his death), his influences are evident. The building, which was renovated in 2011, is utilitarian, with narrow windows and a marble exterior. A few blocks away is the Detroit Athletic Club, an upscale, private Neo-Renaissance clubhouse that opened in 1915 and was designed by Kahn. The inspiration for the club’s design came from the Palazzo Borghese, a palace in Rome known for its majestic facade and stunning courtyard arcades. The lobby of the club, with its chandeliers and finely crafted wood paneling, was once a grand gateway for Detroit’s elite. (It’s a private club, so I didn’t go any farther.) But for much of the club’s existence, Jews, as well as African-Americans and women, were barred from holding memberships. The club resolved to make an exception for Kahn, according to Mr. Hodges and Ms. Zimmerman, but he refused. Close to the Qube, the Neoclassical-style Vinton Building, designed with a prominent parapet, now features apartments across its 12 floors. The long-shuttered National Theater features a modernistic design of terra cotta latticework towers. The former Detroit Free Press Building at 321 West Lafayette and the former Detroit News Building at 615 West Lafayette offer a blend of limestone and Art Deco. Advertisement Roughly four miles north of downtown, the New Center neighborhood was a premier retail area before stores began to gravitate to the suburbs. Home to the world headquarters of General Motors from 1923 to 2000, the neighborhood was able to avoid some of the disinvestment that afflicted surrounding areas. Now, like many Detroit neighborhoods, New Center is buzzing with energy. The 30-story Fisher Building here is one of Kahn’s most beloved structures: a classic Art Deco building with an intricate mix of limestone, granite and marble. The building’s construction was financed by the Fisher brothers, who sold their namesake Fisher Body Company to General Motors. Kahn had virtually an unlimited budget, installing more than 600 bronze elevator doors, both interior and exterior, and 1,800 bronze windows, along with a gilt-tile roof. Opened in 1928, the building was envisioned as part of an expansive, more dramatic complex, with two towers and one large tower in the middle. The stock market crash brought an end to those ambitious plans. My Pure Detroit tour of the Fisher Building started in the barrel-vaulted arcade, with Mr. Hooper giving visitors an excellent sense of what the building was like when it opened. He explained how the adjoining garage would service cars when customers were running errands inside the building. Underground tunnels connected the Fisher Building to the neighboring Albert Kahn and Cadillac Place buildings. The building defies the conventional wisdom that office spaces cannot be inspiring. This was evident from the third-floor overlook of the Fisher arcade, which gave us a view of the frescoes and mosaics that line the ceilings, with images of outstretched eagles that represented American power. “After four years, I still genuinely enjoy giving tours,” Mr. Hooper said. “A lot of the people who come are first-timers or people who haven’t been in decades, and a big part of the experience is surprising people or changing their minds about architecture that’s in Detroit.” Across the street, the Albert Kahn Building, a limestone 1931 Art Deco structure, stands somewhat imposingly even though it has only 10 stories. The lower floors of the building formerly housed a Saks Fifth Avenue store that operated for 40 years. Since 1931, the building has housed the offices of Albert Kahn Associates, but the firm’s offices are moving to renovated space in the Fisher Building later this year. Apartments are expected to replace the old office space. On the tour of the Fisher Building, visitors can see the rooftop of the neighboring Cadillac Place, the former world headquarters of General Motors. With almost 1.4 million square feet of space, it goes without saying that the building is massive. Kahn built a wide, two-story base with four, separate, 15-story buildings, which erased the fortresslike quality that many office buildings possess and allowed for sunlight from different angles. Advertisement Cadillac Place is now occupied by offices for the state of Michigan, but the first floor is open to the public. Italian marble covers many of the walls; the floors are Tennessee marble. An elaborate globe chandelier is a reminder of the building’s opulent past. Across from Cadillac Place is the A. Alfred Taubman Center for Design Education, best known as the Argonaut Building. The red-brown brick building was the location of the General Motors Research Laboratory from 1936 to 1956. The Argonaut is a private facility, so I wasn’t able to get a sense of the interior, but this is one of Kahn’s more expressive buildings: it has beautiful arches with striped banding patterns. The patterns, at the top of the building, are virtually the same as those at the Albert, a downtown apartment building that Kahn designed. A few blocks south, the Maccabees Building was designed in the Art Deco and Romanesque style, with broad windows and a recessed barrel vault arch on the ground floor and arched windows with spandrel panels on some of the upper floors. The 1927 building, built for the fraternal organization Knights of the Maccabees, has a limestone exterior and is owned by Wayne State University. Although it is a university building with academic programs, visitors can still see the lobby and its ceiling with intricate patterned mosaic tiles. In the nearby Brush Park neighborhood is the Albert Kahn House, where the architect lived from 1906 to 1942, at the corner of Mack and John R. Street. Now the headquarters of the Detroit Urban League, the home embodies much of the charm of Tudor designs, with a blend of brick and stucco. The Detroit region was home to many of Kahn’s industrial laboratories, including the Highland Park Ford Plant, where the Model T was produced, along with the Packard Automotive Plant and the Ford River Rouge Plant in Dearborn. Unfortunately, most of the Highland Park Plant has been razed. At the Ford River Rouge plant, virtually all of Kahn’s buildings have been torn down or significantly modified. But the Packard plant is still very much visible, with its durable brickwork and the pedestrian bridge over East Grand Boulevard evidence of past economic might. “It was based on the Packard No. 10 building that Henry Ford hired Albert Kahn to build the Highland Park Plant in 1908,” Mr. Hodges said. “The building is interesting because it had no ornamentation whatsoever and was stripped down to the bare essentials to save his client money.” At its peak, the Packard Plant had 3.5 million square feet of usable space, and it was one the first industrial facilities to use reinforced concrete. There are plans to convert part of the building to office space, but Kahn’s industrial signature will remain. (Pure Detroit now offers walking tours of Packard.) “Kahn truly influenced the Modern movement with his industrial work,” said Alan Cobb, an architect who has been the president and chief executive of Albert Kahn Associates since 2013. “[Walter] Gropius and [Ludwig] Mies van der Rohe looked to Kahn for their philosophies. Basically, while they were creating the philosophy behind modern architecture, Albert Kahn was quietly building it.” Advertisement That was clear when I entered the Hill Auditorium at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor and heard beautiful crisp notes coming from the stage, acoustics that Kahn must have dreamed of when he designed this facility. The auditorium, which opened in 1913, reminded me of Radio City Music Hall in New York, with its striking main arched stage. Next to the auditorium is the imposing Burton Memorial Tower, which has a student-run carillon on weekdays. Minutes away, the stately Angell Hall, with its numerous columns, helps define the collegiate atmosphere. The Natural Science Building, a short brick building with a dignified, arched entrance, has been a center of learning for decades. “In the 1920s, Kahn worked with other members of the University of Michigan community to modernize the campus plan as part of the Committee of Five,” Ms. Zimmerman said. “The buildings have a consistency to them in terms of how they look, but they also have a functional consistency. They really turned the campus from a 19th-century campus to a much more modern 20th-century campus.” In Ann Arbor, and in Detroit, Kahn’s buildings not only seem modern — they’re timeless. The Edsel and Eleanor Ford House is located at 1100 Lake Shore Road in Grosse Pointe Shores, roughly 35 minutes from downtown Detroit. General house tours ($12) are available Tuesday through Sunday at select times. The Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory on Belle Isle is open Wednesday through Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Belle Isle Aquarium is open Friday through Sunday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Pure Detroit offers free tours of the Fisher Building on Saturday and Sunday at select times. The tours are roughly 45 minutes to an hour long. John L. Dorman is a contributor and a senior news assistant for the Travel section of The New York Times. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page TR1 of the New York edition with the headline: Looking Up in Detroit.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »
Advertisement Supported by It’s a tense time for avatars of celebrity in the age of male failure. By Dayna Evans Madame Tussauds opened its New York City outpost at 42nd Street and Eighth Avenue after the pornography theaters were shut down but shortly before the Sept. 11 attacks. One of 24 Madame Tussauds branches around the world, it has an admission fee of $37 — $12 more than MoMA or the Met — that you can get down to $29 if you buy tickets online in advance.  As emphasized by docents in the elevator ride to its top floor, it also has two bars. “Electric Lemonade” sells for $9.95 and margaritas for $10, and drinks can be carried throughout the attraction, unlike at some of those other expensive New York institutions. On a recent visit up there, a little kid was shoving his fingers up Lenny Kravitz’s nose. Two teenagers took a selfie with a replica of Johnny Depp that, perhaps deliberately, had seen better days. A family of three took turns getting selfies with Woody Allen. One older male visitor was posing next to Sofia Vergara, his arm hovering near her waist. Politely, he refrained from actually touching her.  There are no rules for how visitors interact with the celebrity replicas at Tussauds. Even touching the figures’ hair, which studio artists in London painstakingly implant into heads strand by strand, is allowed. (The hair on President Trump’s head? A mix of human and yak. His eyebrows: squirrel.) “Who’s that?” one child asked his father, pointing at Bruce Willis. “You may be able to follow the celebrities and get up close with them on Instagram and stuff like that,” said Christine Haughney, the regional head of marketing for Merlin Entertainments, the parent company of Madame Tussauds. “But here, you can actually get your photo taken with them.”  There are five floors at the attraction, but the most notable recent addition to the array of more than 150 figures is not the figure of Romeo Santos or the immersive “4D Marvel experience.”  Instead, what was striking were the black-and-white Time’s Up pins fastened to the glittering ball gowns of A-list replicas like Susan Sarandon and Anne Hathaway, and to the more casual attire of — who knows why — Justin Timberlake and Ed Sheeran. Representing the recent movement by women in Hollywood to end harassment and inequality in all industries, the Time’s Up pins speak for wax figures who, one hopes, can’t actually speak for themselves.  This slight costume change is the result of what Ms. Haughney said is the secret sauce fueling Tussauds’ 300-year survival. “We always keep our fingers on the pulse and make sure that we’re staying up-to-date,” she said.  The Oscars are coming up? Actresses get Time’s Up pins. Donald Trump decides to forgo a visit to the United States embassy in London? His wildly lifelike figure is staged outside of the embassy for him. Pope Francis travels to the United States for the first time? Madame Tussauds parades his waxwork through the streets of New York in a veneer-white, top-down convertible.  The former “Today” anchor Matt Lauer is accused of sexual harassment by multiple women? His wax figure is quietly removed from Madame Tussauds.  “Just with the nature of the news, we did take him off the floor for the moment,” Ms. Haughney said, about Mr. Lauer’s representation. “But it’s still a figure that we have here, of course. We just don’t have him on the floor right now.” (“Luckily we have not had to remove any of our figures in Hollywood due to scandals,” Helen Larimore, the marketing manager for Madame Tussauds Hollywood, wrote in an email; Dustin Hoffman, Quentin Tarantino, Michael Jackson and Marlon Brando still happily hold court out west.) New York City-themed hallways lead into a “Ghostbusters” virtual reality experience that opened at the attraction in 2016, which is a little funny when you remember that New York is very much right outside.  Above a plump wax figure of a city policeman, a backlit sign announces, “GOOD SERVICE” for all but two of 11 subway lines. It is one of the least realistic artifacts in the entire place, second only to the waxwork of Robert Pattinson, the “Twilight” actor, which looks more like Jean-Ralphio Saperstein from “Parks and Recreation.”  A survivor of the French Revolution and a protégée of the physician and waxworks hobbyist Philippe Curtius, Marie Tussaud, born Anna Maria Grosholtz, brought a traveling roadshow of wax figures she had created through England between 1802 and 1835, after which she set up a permanent exhibition in London. (Notable characters including Benjamin Franklin and Voltaire sat for her back in the day.)  When the museum burned down in 1925, firefighters saved the attraction’s on-site parrot, which, once revived, is said to have remarked to the crowd that had gathered, “This is a rotten business.”  A waxwork of Sleeping Beauty first made in 1765 by Curtius, then recast from the original mold in 1989, was one of several bequeathed to Tussaud after Curtius’s death. It has left London for the first time to be exhibited beginning this month at the Met Breuer. Inside the waxwork is a steel mechanism, developed by Tussaud and her sons in the 1830s, that moves a breathing chest piece to give the appearance that the waxwork is actually breathing. Madame Tussauds thrived in London throughout the 20th century, featuring an occasionally rotating cast of wax figures, including the royal family (central and extended), as well as an extensive Chamber of Horrors, where Adolf Hitler and Joseph Goebbels were on display.  Hitler’s waxwork, a short distance from Mahatma Gandhi, was doused in red paint in 1933 by three men and one woman, who also hung a sign from the figure that read, “HITLER the MASS MURDERER.” In 2008, at the just-opened Berlin outpost of Madame Tussauds, Hitler was beheaded by the second visitor to ever step foot in the museum.  Controversy about identity and politics visits Tussauds regularly. Though the dawn of the selfie era proved to be a boon for the brand, social media has also introduced its share of problems. (“Social sharing” is encouraged by docents; the preferred hashtag is “#famousfun.”)  Last year, a wax figure of Beyoncé was taken off the floor temporarily after an outcry that she had been whitewashed, in both the literal and figurative senses. “We did a couple small outfit changes and we were able to fix the lighting,” Ms. Haughney said of the incident.  After unveiling the rapper Nicki Minaj’s wax figure in Las Vegas in 2015, in which she posed on her hands and knees in a revealing outfit, guests immediately began posing for obscene photographs with the waxwork, forcing Madame Tussauds to release a statement that confirmed it would bring in more security and redesign the set. Merlin Entertainments, which acquired the Tussauds brand in 2007 for $1.9 billion, reported lackluster attendance last summer to its attractions in Britain, which include the London Eye, after terrorist attacks in London. Earlier this month, the brand announced it had bounced back, reporting a 3.5 percent increase in global visitors to its 127 attractions worldwide.  While Madame Tussauds New York and Madame Tussauds Hollywood declined to share daily attendance numbers, Ms. Larimore said that the Hollywood location, which is closed only one day each year, for Oscars Sunday, gets “hundreds of visitors daily.” (A competing, off-brand wax museum called “Hollywood Wax Museum” is only a few blocks down the street, and the admission is cheaper, though the Meryl Streep waxwork is far, far worse.) In a time where the public has a more complicated relationship with celebrity than ever, and more male stars are outed for their indiscretions, what does the future hold for a brand so dependent on famous people as Madame Tussauds? Vloggers, reality stars and even Grumpy Cat — whose figure is terrifyingly animatronic — have their own waxworks at the attractions now. “If there’s a massive celeb and it’s big news worldwide, that’s someone we’d probably need to look at and do,” Ms. Haughney said. Fame moves quickly and is never certain. Can the melted wax keep up?  While Tussauds is the largest network of waxworks museums in the world, it hardly holds a monopoly: in Baltimore, there is the Great Blacks in Wax Museum; in Paris, Montreal, Prague and Seoul, the Musee Grevin; the Heroes of Baseball Wax Museum is in Cooperstown, N.Y.  A handful of notable wax museums have closed in recent years — in Buena Park, Calif., the Movieland Wax Museum (which was previously the largest wax museum the United States) in 2005; Ontario’s Criminals Hall of Fame Wax Museum in 2014. Yet, Tussauds’ most recent attraction opened as recently as last year, in New Delhi.  “Waxworks have this simultaneous lifelikeness and deathlikeness,” Michelle Bloom, a professor of comparative literature and French at University of California, Riverside and the author of “Waxworks: A Cultural Obsession” (2003), said in a phone interview. “But a wax figure can pass for a living person at the same time that it’s very corpse-like. I think we’re drawn to both, really.” In Dr. Bloom’s book, she explores the cultural phenomenon of waxworks through art, film and literature. “Their lifelikeness and yet — they’re not real! — means that we can do what we want with the figures,” she said. “A lot of Hollywood horror films and works of literature get to this perverseness. There is usually a male character who is enamored of or obsessed with the wax figure of a woman. It’s the ‘ideal woman’ who doesn’t talk and is literally malleable. He can control her. He can project his fantasy onto her.” For Barkha Maurya, who was in town from India visiting the New York attraction with her husband, it was the fact that “the sculptures felt completely alive. Sometimes, we were confused if it was an actual person or a wax sculpture.” Her favorite figure was The Incredible Hulk. That desire to trip down the uncanny valley has burgeoned an even stranger phenomenon in the era of the activist internet. Superfans of certain celebrities address petitions on sites like Change.org to Madame Tussauds, pleading for the institution to turn their favorite stars into inanimate blocks of carved wax. Given the limit of resources at Tussauds, not every plea is successful, but Ms. Haughney said that the attraction’s priority is “listening to the guests,” after all. In 2015, Jennifer Nieves published a petition on Change.org asking Tussauds in New York to introduce a wax figure for the Bronx-born bachata star Romeo Santos. “It is by request and high demand that Romeo Santos truly deserves this wax figure to honor his great success,” Ms. Nieves wrote. “From his beloved smile, dance moves, skills, and smooth voice that drives all his Romeistas crazy he truly deserves a place at the Madame Tussauds in New York City.”  The petition received over 7,000 signatures (a small amount by Change.org standards), and plans were put in place to bring Mr. Santos’s likeness to Tussauds. “There were lots of tears,” Ms. Haughney said about the unveiling of Mr. Santos’s figure in July of last year. Ms. Nieves was invited to attend, and she met Mr. Santos and his wax replica, which is posed permanently with hands shaped into a heart.  Another such petition, to reinstate Agatha Christie’s wax figure to the London Madame Tussauds, has been less successful. “We’re talking about the person who is still the best-selling author in the world, and whose books, nearly 40 years after her death, are still being made into popular movies,” said the petition’s author, Scott Wallace Baker, by phone from Australia.  And who could forget “Wax Paul Now,” a viral campaign to bring Paul Giamatti’s likeness to the attraction? Not Madame Tussauds New York, which threw a Paul Giamatti-themed party on March 25 — and promised to cast him in wax if petitioners get 500,000 signatures. Ms. Haughney said that who gets into the attraction and who gets booted, who the guests prefer and who goes out of fashion, is determined only by visitors’ preferences. “The most important thing is that we know what our promise is to our brand, as well as to the celebrities,” she said, adding that Mother Teresa — “who was just so in demand with guests” — was one of a small number of luminaries to decline to be waxed. “We would never do anything to jeopardize that. We’re very apolitical.”  Dr. Bloom was skeptical. “There are a lot of organizations that say they’re apolitical,” she said. “Depicting Beyoncé as whitewashed, that’s political. Where you choose to position a figure, or not including a figure, that’s all quite political.”  It’s tradition at Madame Tussauds for sitting presidents to be featured — President Trump, who has himself been accused of sexual assault by multiple women — is protected behind red velvet rope, and by a Tussauds staff member. Visitors are permitted to be photographed with him only under a staff member’s supervision. “There’s an opportunity for visceral on-site interaction,” Ms. Bloom said, “whether you want it or not.” For the people who spent a Friday night in New York at a wax museum that provides a near uniform experience to two dozen other cities — like going to McDonald’s in Rome — it’s really not that serious. The experience at Tussauds, it turns out, is actually defined by the guests who visit it. The unhinged selfies posted to Instagram (#famousfun) that inspire one’s followers to do double-takes — Wait, did Lauren meet Jon Hamm and not freaking tell me??? The act of reveling in or revolting against the absence of Mr. Giamatti or the inclusion of Mr. Allen. The fact that it’s the one place where the public has an automatic upper hand — whether appropriate or not — over the rich and famous.  One day at Madame Tussauds Hollywood in mid-February, a group of friends scripted, staged and filmed a skit that ended in an extended grinding session with Betty White. A wax museum without people is ultimately much weirder and less fun to imagine than a wax museum crowded with them.  On the way out of the Times Square attraction, into the cold, real-life version of New York that these tourists had, maybe, come to see, I asked Sherene Church, who was in town with her sister from Atlanta, if she felt that her visit represented a classically New York experience.  “Oh, absolutely,” she said. “Everything about it was good.”  A family of New Yorkers who had a mother visiting from Mexico were a little more reticent. A wriggling toddler sat on her father’s shoulders, telegraphing that she was more than ready to get back out onto the city streets. Her mother, whose favorite figure that evening had been Michael Jackson, confirmed her daughter’s eagerness to leave. Did the little one have a figure she liked most? “Oh, no,” her mother said. “She’s afraid of all of them.”  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:50 P.M. E.D.T.
 COLUMBUS, Ohio —  Sitting in apartment complexes on opposite sides of town, the women — one a former shopkeeper from Somalia, the other a teacher from Bhutan — waited for children to come home. Only the teacher, Devi Gurung, was rewarded for her patience. On the landing outside an apartment decorated with Buddhist prayer flags, she watched as a school bus turned down the block and the niece she had not seen in four years, hopped to the curb. "I am lucky," said Gurung, reunited with her sister's family just a few days earlier after spending more than half her life in a refugee camp. The next morning, Amina Olow smiled, too, but faintly, as she recalled the daughters she has not seen in nearly a decade. Then she unfolded a letter from U.S. immigration officials, dated more than a year ago, that seemed to promise the two girls would join her soon. She's heard nothing since. Advertisement "My kids, they're a part of my body," Olow said, her voice breaking. Olow and Gurung are both here, within 20 minutes of Ohio State University's football horseshoe, because the U.S. government has granted them safe haven. But that's where their stories diverge. Advertisement Starting early last year, the administration of President Donald Trump banned arrivals from several, mostly Muslim countries, cut the cap on refugee admissions and suspended a program to reunite families split in the resettlement pipeline. For thousands of refugee families already building new lives in the U.S., the changes are playing out in decidedly unnerving and uneven ways. The restrictions have kept many families apart, while allowing some to reunite, sorting people by country, and effectively by religion. When Somali refugee Fadumo Hussein and her daughters joined protesters at John Glenn Columbus International Airport last January to protest the administration's restrictions on arrivals, they did so for very personal reasons. Weeks before the ban was announced, Hussein's parents, who are 75 and 76, had been approved for entry to the U.S. Their arrival was scheduled for last February. More than a year later, they remain stuck in Uganda, their case on hold. Watching Bhutanese neighbors welcome their own family members from a refugee camp in the months since, Hussein's been "happy for them because they were able to reunite," but also confused. "What is different about us, like Somalis or the other countries that are being banned," her daughter, Afnan Salem, asked, "when we are all coming for the same reasons? ___ In the mid-1800s, Ohio's capital city became a stronghold of German immigrants, who settled in the red-brick blocks that now form a historic "village" just south of downtown. But in recent years, Columbus has become a magnet for refugees from Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe. They're drawn by affordable rents, plentiful jobs in distribution centers that require little or no English — and, most importantly, family already here. Advertisement Low-rise apartment complexes on Columbus' north side have become the center of the largest U.S. population of Bhutanese refugees, most who are Buddhist or Hindu and were expelled during a government-led ethnic cleansing campaign against ethnic Nepalis in the early 1990s. More than 20,000 Bhutanese now live alongside the country's second largest Somali refugee community — overwhelmingly Muslim, and from one of the countries whose arrivals have been most sharply reduced. They've been joined by a growing population of refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo, most of them Christian. Today, shopping centers on or near Morse Road are speckled with Nepali groceries and African restaurants serving dishes with the staple cassava flour called fufu. "Everybody has a dream that if I go, there will be a chance for my son to come or my mother to come," said Jhuma Acharya, who came to Columbus as a refugee from Bhutan and now works for Community Refugee & Immigration Services, or CRIS, one of the city's two resettlement agencies. But for many, Trump's policies have shaken those expectations. "There's certainly a pretty dramatic shift" in the mix and number of refugees being allowed in, said Kathleen Newland, a fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington, D.C., think tank. The U.S. is on track to take in the smallest number of refugees since Congress passed a law in 1980 creating the modern resettlement system. At the current rate, the U.S. will take in about 21,000 refugees this fiscal year, well below the cap of 45,000 set by the administration and roughly a quarter those granted entry in the final year of Barack Obama's presidency. The administration is also cutting the resettlement system itself, telling executives of nine private agencies they must close any office expected to place fewer than 100 refugees this year. In citing security concerns to exclude refugees from certain countries, Newland said, the administration has skewed the ethnic and religious makeup of the much smaller number allowed entry. About 15 percent of refugees admitted to the U.S. this fiscal year are Muslim, down from 47 percent a year ago, federal figures show. Advertisement U.S. officials say there is no preference for refugees of one religion over another: "The United States is committed to assisting people of all religions, ethnicities, and nationalities who are fleeing persecution, violence, and other drivers of displacement," a State Department spokeswoman said in a written response to questions. The administration resumed the program to reunify refugee families in December, she said, responding to a judge's injunction. Trump's policies have sharply cut refugee arrivals to many cities. In Toledo, for example, the resettlement agency US Together had taken in 180 Syrians since 2014. Since last July, though, there has not been a single new arrival from the country, program director Corine Dehabey said. But renewed admissions of refugees from Bhutan and Congo, as well as from Ukraine, have made Columbus something of an anomaly, said Angie Plummer, executive director of CRIS. Most Americans probably know little of either the tiny Himalayan kingdom or the country long known as Zaire. But Trump's policy has left them as the two largest contributors to the dwindling pool of new refugees, accounting for 45 percent of the 8,600 arrivals since October, government figures show. "We are not Muslims that they would hate to bring here ... and we're not from any of the listed countries," said Sudarshan Pyakurel, who arrived as a refugee in 2010 and is now director of the Bhutanese Nepali Community of Columbus, a center offering English classes, wellness programs and walk-in assistance. "We don't fit in any of those boxes." Authorities plan to close the camp housing Bhutanese this year, and relocate most of its last remaining inhabitants to the U.S. But early last year, "there was a rumor back in the refugee camp that America was not taking any more refugees," Devi Gurung said. The Trump's administration's freeze on new admissions left her worrying if she'd ever again see her older sister, Harka, who was resettled in Columbus with her husband and daughter in 2014. That was until last month, when Gurung and her parents learned they had been approved for entry. By then, her father, Til Bahadur Gurung, 59, said he had long given up hope of returning to the land in southern Bhutan where he had farmed rice and millet. The only planes they'd ever seen were the ones that crossed the sky over the refugee camp.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But after 18 hours in the air, the elder Gurung exited the vessel he calls "the big tube." Eden, his 8-year-old granddaughter, was waiting to embrace him. In recent months, far fewer Muslim families have experienced similar exultation. In the first two months of this year, the U.S. accepted 49 refugees from Somalia, 19 from Iraq and five from Syria. That is down sharply from the 1,094 Somalis, 1,860 Iraqis and 1,991 Syrian refugees admitted in the first two months of 2017. Advertisement Just two years ago, CRIS assisted 15 to 30 new arrivals from Iraq, Iran, Syria and Afghanistan each month. They included Alizabet Yandem and four of her children. In July 2016 they joined her husband, Rifat Moustafa, a lawyer who said he fled his native Syria after he was jailed and beaten with an electric cable for criticizing the Assad regime's record on human rights. But their son, Hasib, remained in the Middle East after officials held up his petition. Moustafa suspected an objection to his son's malformed left arm and hand, which need surgery. But the family expected approval within months. Then the new administration took office, and the case stalled. Officially, Trump's policies on refugees do not apply to Moustafa, who was granted political asylum after arrival in the U.S. But resettlement officials said they suspect the stepped up vetting and uncertainty under the new policies have caused widespread delays. One recent afternoon, Moustafa chatted happily with his son via Facebook. But the father rushed out the door in sandals, ignoring the winter chill, as soon as the son began to sing of their five-year separation. "I don't want him to see that I am crying," Moustafa said, lighting a Marlboro and wiping the back of a hand across his cheek. "I don't want to lose my child." After years of working with many new arrivals, Firas Mousa, a former translator for the U.S. military in Iraq who works with refugees from the Middle East for CRIS, said he now has just a single active case. Those whose cases are stalled include his sister- and brother-in-law, who fled Iraq to Turkey in 2014. He said they were approved for refugee status by a UN surrogate agency in late 2016, but have heard nothing since. "They said God will help us," Mousa said. "Logic tells me if Trump is president I can't expect any new refugees." Advertisement ___ For those already here, the changes are playing out in what can seem haphazard ways. A few minutes before midnight, Esta Ausa peered down the concourse of the Columbus airport, ignoring friends' teasing to relax and sit down. It had been 18 months since Ausa, 22, left her parents, brothers and sisters behind in a refugee camp in Tanzania to enter the U.S. The family is among 675,000 Congolese the United Nations estimates have fled to neighboring countries, first to escape a brutal civil war and then renewed ethnic violence. After the U.S. put a temporary hold on new refugees last year, Ausa said, her parents' approval to enter the U.S. was canceled twice. "We didn't know what to expect," said Ausa, her words translated by Eric Rusingiza, a CRIS caseworker. "They thought it was the end of their family coming," Rusingiza said. Then, the family's American dream came true. Ausa spotted a group of bewildered arrivals — their brand new red-yellow-and-blue winter jackets standing out in the brightly lit and nearly empty terminal. "Mama?" she said. Then she danced toward the security perimeter, enfolding her mother, Mwavita Maulidi, in her arms. "I thank God for everything," said her father, Ausa Emedi, 46. In coming days, one of the first tasks would be seeking out a doctor who can ensure his treatment for epilepsy. But that would have to wait. At 1:30 a.m., Emedi hauled bags into a bare two-bedroom apartment, paid for with aid the U.S. provides to covers refugees' expenses during their first 90 days. One of his daughters, Machozi, 16, walked from room to room, opening closet and cabinet doors. Then they stood wide-eyed as the case worker demonstrated the workings of a flush toilet — like none they had ever seen before. Advertisement "They want to learn everything on the same day and it really can't happen," Rusingiza said. "It will take time." As the Ausas woke for their first morning in America, Olow, the Somali refugee, took a break from work to tell a decidedly different story. When Olow last saw her daughters, 13-year-old Neemotallah and 10-year-old Nastexo, they were babies. At the time, she was running a food shop in South Africa. After rioters attacked foreigners across that country in 2008 and looted her store, she took her daughters to live with their aunt in Kenya, and tried unsuccessfully to salvage her business. She was admitted to the U.S. in 2014. U.S. officials eventually accepted DNA tests proving her kinship with the girls, said Olow, who now works in an apartment leasing office, the only staffer in a hijab. She unfolded the letter to her husband, a truck driver, from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, approving her older daughter's petition and dated last March. "We are a family. We have a right to be together," she said. "And the president should have empathy for families that have been dislocated, just like mine. We need one another." As Olow walked back through the desks, site manager Janet Siford noticed her tears. "Amina, I'm sorry," said Siford, herself the mother of four. "We got you, we got you. One day at a time, OK?" She leaned over, wrapping her arms around Olow and cradling the refugee's scarfed head on her shoulder. "We're like sisters," Siford said. "We hug. We laugh. We cry." ___ Multimedia journalist Martha Irvine contributed to this report. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
Advertisement By TYLER KEPNERMARCH 26, 2018
 On the day of his team’s first full-squad workout as World Series champions, the Houston Astros’ architect, Jeff Luhnow, acknowledged a feeling of awe. The nameplates in the team’s spring training clubhouse, especially those above the pitchers’ lockers, were a sight to behold. “I go in there and I can’t believe it,” said Luhnow, the general manager, naming the Astros’ rotation. “They’re all right there and they’re all ours. That’s an incredibly rich group.” The group includes two Cy Young Award winners, Justin Verlander and Dallas Keuchel. It includes Lance McCullers Jr., who closed out the Yankees in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series, and Charlie Morton, who closed out the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 7 of the World Series. After a January trade with the Pittsburgh Pirates, it also includes Gerrit Cole, a former No. 1 overall draft pick with durability and an All-Star pedigree. The collection is so gaudy that Collin McHugh and Brad Peacock, who would start almost anywhere else, will pitch from the bullpen. Advertisement “I honestly didn’t think that we could, potentially, be this good, just knowing what we did last year,” Keuchel said. “Never in my wildest dreams did I think, in the off-season, we were going to get Gerrit. That’s pretty cool to me. We got better.” Advertisement The Astros also kept their soul this month by rewarding Jose Altuve with a five-year, $151 million contract extension, through 2024. Altuve, the A.L. most valuable player, said the Cole trade told the team that Luhnow wanted to add another trophy immediately. —— Read our National League preview here. —— “We’re aware of everything, how hard it is to win back to back,” Altuve said. “But it’s not impossible. We’re going to do the best we can to make it happen.” No team has repeated since the Yankees won three titles in a row from 1998 through 2000. This is the longest stretch in major league history without a repeat champion, but the Astros have everything they need to change that. Only two of their starters exceeded 200 innings last season: Verlander (242⅔, including the postseason) and Cole (203). Only two position players, Altuve and third baseman Alex Bregman, played more than 140 games in the regular season. “Physically, our guys are fine,” Manager A.J. Hinch said. “The mental part of it will be our biggest challenge.” He added: “I watched this last season when the Indians and the Cubs — both World Series teams — struggled the first month of the season. They were told they were struggling. They were told they were having a hangover. They were told they weren’t playing up to expectations. That has to lead to a ton more anxiety and a ton more tension around a team that you don’t normally have to deal with. You carry a lot of baggage around the following season from winning, and that type of attention isn’t always good attention.” If any team is immune to prolonged struggles, though, this should be the one. The Astros, who return almost everyone, led the majors in slugging percentage in 2017 while finishing last in strikeouts. They have mastered the modern power game without the trade-off most teams must make — like drinking all the Champagne at a party yet feeling just fine the next morning. Expect no hangover for the 2018 Astros, just another championship banner at Minute Maid Park. The rest of the West division should not pose much of a challenge. The game’s best player, Mike Trout, begins his seventh full season with the Los Angeles Angels still seeking his first playoff victory. The Angels will try a six-man rotation behind him, being careful not to ask much from a group that includes no starting candidates who worked even 150 innings last season. “It’s going to allow us to use depth,” starter Matt Shoemaker said. “And if it gives us extra days to help us stay fresh, it’s just going to help the team, and us.” Advertisement After a trying spring training, Shohei Ohtani, the pitching and hitting sensation from Japan, is the great unknown. The Angels upgraded their infield with Ian Kinsler at second base and Zack Cozart at third, and they begin their first full season with left fielder Justin Upton. But designated hitter Albert Pujols, 38, regressed markedly last season and still has four years left on his contract. Despite a rash of late-spring pitching injuries, the Oakland Athletics don’t feel like a last-place team anymore. They found long-term solutions by putting Matts on their infield corners — Matt Olson at first base and Matt Chapman at third. And the newcomers Stephen Piscotty and Jonathan Lucroy will help a lineup whose designated hitter, Khris Davis, hit 85 homers the last two seasons. (Only Giancarlo Stanton, with 86, had more.) Could the A’s sneak up on the field and snag a playoff berth, as they did six years ago? It’s unlikely, but you never know. “That’s putting pretty high expectations on them, but it is something we’ve discussed, certainly internally but also publicly,” General Manager David Forst said. “The ideal situation for this team would be to be like the ’12 team, and be better than expected now and then continue to get better going forward.” 
            Tyler Kepner makes his picks for the season. Teams are listed in predicted order of finish.         American League East: Yankees, Orioles (wild card), Red Sox, Blue Jays, Rays A.L. Central: Indians, Twins (wild card), Royals, White Sox, Tigers A.L. West: Astros, Angels, Athletics, Mariners, Rangers National League East: Nationals, Phillies, Mets, Braves, Marlins N.L. Central: Cubs, Cardinals (wild card), Brewers, Pirates, Reds N.L. West: Dodgers, Diamondbacks (wild card), Rockies, Padres, Giants World Series: Astros over Cubs A.L. M.V.P.: Carlos Correa, Astros A.L. Cy Young: Chris Sale, Red Sox A.L. Rookie of the Year: Shohei Ohtani, Angels N.L. M.V.P.: Paul Goldschmidt, Diamondbacks N.L. Cy Young: Stephen Strasburg, Nationals N.L. Rookie of the Year: Ronald Acuna, Braves The Seattle Mariners keep trying, but seem destined to miss the playoffs for the 17th season in a row. Even if Nelson Cruz, 37, and Robinson Cano, 35, continue their elite offensive production, a thin rotation dooms this team. The ace James Paxton has pitched parts of five seasons but never made 25 starts, and there’s only mediocrity behind him, including Felix Hernandez, who has a 4.08 earned run average since turning 30 in early 2016. If a hitter’s job is to get on base and avoid making outs, the Texas Rangers’ Rougned Odor had a historic performance in 2017: Of all the players to make 500 outs in a season, Odor had the lowest on-base percentage, at .252. He did have 30 homers, but also 162 strikeouts, and symbolized the Rangers’ all-or-nothing offense. They took no steps to improve it, and went bargain-hunting (Mike Minor, Matt Moore, Doug Fister) to address a wobbly rotation. The Cleveland Indians finished 17 games ahead of the Minnesota Twins in the A.L. Central last season, and the gap has narrowed significantly. The Indians lost first baseman Carlos Santana, right fielder Jay Bruce and the setup man Bryan Shaw in free agency, while the Twins added starters Jake Odorizzi and Lance Lynn, relievers Addison Reed and Fernando Rodney, and designated hitter Logan Morrison, among others. Advertisement “We more or less returned the entire position-player club from last year, which in the second half really performed,” said Derek Falvey, the Twins’ chief baseball officer. “They’re young and they’re growing. We knew on the pitching side we could add some experience and some depth.” The Indians — a team Falvey helped build — still have more star power than the Twins, with starters Corey Kluber and Carlos Carrasco, relievers Cody Allen and Andrew Miller and the lineup mainstays Francisco Lindor and Edwin Encarnacion. But this could be the closest division race of them all, with both teams qualifying for the postseason as they batter their three division neighbors.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After failing to find a new home in free agency, third baseman Mike Moustakas made a surprise return to the Kansas City Royals, signing on for another year with championship teammates from 2015 like Salvador Perez, Alcides Escobar and Alex Gordon. But with Lorenzo Cain and Eric Hosmer gone via free agency — and no additions to a weak rotation — the Royals may slip back to 90 losses and trade whoever they can in July. The Chicago White Sox are finished with their tear-down trades, but waiting for their high-end prospects to arrive before adding veterans. In the meantime, they’ll enjoy watching second baseman Yoan Moncada break through as a star beside first baseman Jose Abreu, his fellow Cuban and the team’s steady leader. After going 64-98, the Detroit Tigers hold the No. 1 overall draft pick for just the second time in franchise history. They might do so again in 2019 because this could be the worst team in baseball. The Tigers have three fading veterans combining for $72 million in salaries (Miguel Cabrera, Jordan Zimmermann and Victor Martinez), with nobody else making more than $6.5 million. “They might take some lumps, but it’s going to be a learning process and we have to let it unfold in front of our eyes,” said Ron Gardenhire, the veteran manager who replaces Brad Ausmus. “You can’t force it, you can’t beat ’em up. It’s all going to be about patience here.” Since the last time the Yankees won the A.L. East, the Boston Red Sox have won it three times and the Baltimore Orioles and the Toronto Blue Jays have each had a turn. The Yankees should take back the division for the first time since 2012, and could do it with relative ease. “We’ve got a lot of coverage in the infield and outfield side,” General Manager Brian Cashman said. “In the bullpen, we’ve got a lot of high-leverage guys. The rotation’s the area, like any team, mostly you get affected. You lose some key guys in that rotation, it could be really challenging to your season.” Fair enough, but the Yankees’ group of Luis Severino, Masahiro Tanaka, Sonny Gray, C.C. Sabathia and Jordan Montgomery looks a lot stronger than Boston’s starting staff, which falls off sharply after the left-handers Chris Sale and David Price. And that’s assuming Price’s elbow allows him to make more than the 11 starts he made last year. Advertisement What, then, about the Baltimore Orioles as the second wild-card team, with the Twins? The Red Sox will score a lot of runs, but so could the Orioles, especially if shortstop Manny Machado has a big platform year before free agency and third baseman Tim Beckham builds off his first full season as an everyday player. The homegrown starters Dylan Bundy and Kevin Gausman may never develop into All-Stars. But they are solid, and remember, the Orioles contended into September last year despite giving 300 innings to Wade Miley and Ubaldo Jimenez, who combined for a 6.18 E.R.A. The newcomers Andrew Cashner and Alex Cobb are bound to do better. The Orioles will miss closer Zach Britton for half the season as he recovers from a ruptured Achilles. But it should be no surprise if Manager Buck Showalter finds a way to squeeze this team into the playoffs for the fourth time in seven seasons. “You don’t question the end goal playing for Buck Showalter,” Beckham said. “The end goal is winning. As a player, with some organizations, you question that.” The Toronto Blue Jays seemed to make a halfhearted effort at winning this off-season, opting for complementary moves instead of reloading in Josh Donaldson’s final season before free agency. The Blue Jays wanted to give themselves a chance to contend without touching a farm system they have worked hard to revive. A decent rotation does give them a chance, but only a small one. If the Blue Jays struggle early, expect a major roster overhaul. That process is well underway for the Tampa Bay Rays, who plan to use only four starting pitchers this season, using days off and mixing in occasional bullpen games. The Rays’ offense, which strikes out prodigiously, has lost four players who combined for 115 homers last season: Logan Morrison, Corey Dickerson, Evan Longoria and Steven Souza Jr. The franchise has finished in last place just once since 2007, the last year it was known as the Devil Rays. The Rays are not changing their name again, but they are searching for a new identity. A version of this article appears in print on March 26, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Somehow, the Astros Spent the Off-Season Getting Even Better.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »
